SOURCE_PDF: 00cef9cf94dd_Non-Teaching-Staff-Members-Syllabus-IITJ-O_E-II_-2024-25-Non-Academic-Staff-57-63877987.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Syllabus for the post of JUNIOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANT (Civil & Infrastructure Engineering)
(WRITTEN TEST & SKILL TEST)
Structural Engineering 
Engineering Mechanics: System of forces, free-body diagrams, equilibrium equations; Internal forces 
in structures; Frictions and its applications; Centre of mass; Free Vibrations of undamped SDOF 
system. 
 
Solid Mechanics: Bending moment and shear force in statically determinate beams; Simple stress and 
strain relationships; Simple bending theory, flexural and shear stresses, shear centre; Uniform 
torsion, Transformation of stress; buckling of column, combined and direct bending stresses. 
 
Structural Analysis: Statically determinate and indeterminate structures by force/ energy methods; 
Method of superposition; Analysis of trusses, arches, beams, cables and frames; Displacement 
methods: Slope deflection and moment distribution methods; Influence lines; Stiffness and 
flexibility methods of structural analysis. 
 
Construction Materials and Management: Construction Materials: Structural Steel – Composition, 
material properties and behaviour; Concrete - Constituents, mix design, short-term and long-term 
properties. Construction Management: Types of construction projects; Project planning and 
network analysis - PERT and CPM; Cost estimation. 
 
Concrete Structures: Working stress and Limit state design concepts; Design of beams, slabs, 
columns; Bond and development length; Prestressed concrete beams. 
 
Steel Structures: Working stress and Limit state design concepts; Design of tension and compression 
members, beams and beam- columns, column bases; Connections - simple and eccentric, beam-
column connections, plate girders and trusses; Concept of plastic analysis -beams and frames. 
 
Geotechnical Engineering 
Soil Mechanics: Three-phase system and phase relationships, index properties; Unified and Indian 
standard soil classification system; Permeability - one dimensional flow, Seepage through soils – 
two -dimensional flow, flow nets, uplift pressure, piping, capillarity, seepage force; Principle of 
effective stress and quicksand condition; Compaction of soils; One- dimensional consolidation, time 
rate of consolidation; Shear Strength, Mohr’s circle, effective and total shear strength parameters, 
Stress-Strain characteristics of clays and sand; Stress paths. 
 
Foundation Engineering: Sub-surface investigations - Drilling bore holes, sampling, plate load test, 
standard penetration and cone penetration tests; Earth pressure theories - Rankine and Coulomb; 
Stability of slopes – Finite and infinite slopes, Bishop’s method; Stress distribution in soils – 
Boussinesq’s theory; Pressure bulbs, Shallow foundations – Terzaghi’s and Meyerhoff’s bearing 
capacity theories, effect of water table; Combined footing and raft foundation; Contact pressure; 
Settlement analysis in sands and clays; Deep foundations – dynamic and static formulae, Axial load

capacity of piles in sands and clays, pile load test, pile under lateral loading, pile group efficiency, 
negative skin friction. 
 
Water Resources Engineering 
Fluid Mechanics: Properties of fluids, fluid statics; Continuity, momentum and energy equations and 
their applications; Potential flow, Laminar and turbulent flow; Flow in pipes, pipe networks; 
Concept of boundary layer and its growth; Concept of lift and drag. 
 
Hydraulics: Forces on immersed bodies; Flow measurement in channels and pipes; Dimensional 
analysis and hydraulic similitude; Channel Hydraulics - Energy-depth relationships, specific 
energy, critical flow, hydraulic jump, uniform flow, gradually varied flow and water surface 
profiles. 
 
Hydrology: Hydrologic cycle, precipitation, evaporation, evapo-transpiration, watershed, 
infiltration, unit hydrographs, hydrograph analysis, reservoir capacity, flood estimation and 
routing, surface runoff models, ground water hydrology - steady state well hydraulics and aquifers; 
Application of Darcy’s Law. 
 
Irrigation: Types of irrigation systems and methods; Crop water requirements - Duty, delta, 
evapotranspiration; Gravity Dams and Spillways; Lined and unlined canals, Design of weirs on 
permeable foundation; cross drainage structures. 
 
Environmental Engineering 
Basic concepts of chemistry: Nature of matter, Laws of chemical combination, Dalton’s atomic 
theory: concept of elements, Atoms and molecules. Atomic and molecular masses, Mole concept 
and molar mass, Percentage composition, Empirical and molecular formula, Chemical reactions, 
Stoichiometry and calculations based on stoichiometry. 
Water supply - Public water supply system and demand - Types of demand - Per capita demand -
Prediction of population. Intakes - Types of intakes-Description of intakes-Infiltration galleries and 
infiltration wells in river beds - Necessity of pumps - Types of pumps - Pipes for conveyance of 
water. 
Water treatment - Sedimentation –Types of sedimentation - Coagulation - Coagulants and their 
choice- Types of sedimentation tanks – filtration - R.O process. Distribution system - Gravity, 
pumping and combined system. Wastewater treatment - Primary and secondary treatments - 
Screens – Skimming tanks - Grit chambers - Sedimentation tanks – Filters - Types and description 
of filters – Activated sludge process- Septic tanks - Construction and working of septic tanks- BOD, 
COD, DO, Nitrogen, Phosphorus and Fluoride testing; Disinfection method; Microbiological tests 
 
Solid Waste Management: Types of waste, Methods of solid waste disposal - Incineration, Dumping, 
Sanitary landfill, Composting - energy from waste. 
 
Air pollution: Air pollutants, Acid rain, Ozone depletion, Greenhouse effect, Global warming, 
Industrial technologies to remove air pollutants

Transportation Engineering 
Transportation Infrastructure: Geometric design of highways - cross-sectional elements, sight 
distances, horizontal and vertical alignments. 
 
Geometric design of railway Track – Speed and Cant. 
 
Concept of airport runway length, calculations and corrections; taxiway and exit taxiway design. 
Highway Pavements: Desirable properties and tests for highway materials; Desirable properties of 
bituminous paving mixes; Design factors for flexible and rigid pavements; Design of flexible and 
rigid pavement using IRC codes, Design of Bituminous (hot, cold, warm) Mixes and Concrete Mix 
for pavements, Pavement Evaluation Methods. 
 
Traffic Engineering: Traffic studies on flow and speed, peak hour factor, accident study, statistical 
analysis of traffic data; Microscopic and macroscopic parameters of traffic flow, fundamental 
relationships; Traffic signs; Signal design by Webster’s method; Types of intersections; Highway 
capacity. 
 
Geomatics Engineering 
Principles of surveying; Errors and their adjustment; Maps - scale, coordinate system; Distance and 
angle measurement - Levelling and trigonometric levelling; Traversing and triangulation survey; 
Total station; Horizontal and vertical curves. 
 
Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing: Scale, flying height; Basics of remote sensing and GIS.