SOURCE_PDF: 0370595ecd8c_Non-Teaching-Staff-Members-Advertisement-IITJORNF2025-2662-639001883021429129.pdf

Institute Website Link: https://iitj.ac.in
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur (AnInstituteofNationalImportance,MinistryofEducation,Govt.ofIndia)NH 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur, Rajasthan –342030
Advt. No: IITJ/OR(NF)/2025-26/62 RecruitmentforthepostofRegistrar
OnlineapplicationsareinvitedfromeligibleIndianCitizensforthepostof Registrar (on Tenure/Deputation). Submission of online application will start from 17 November, 2025 and will close on 08 December, 2025.
DetailedadvertisementandonlineapplicationformisavailableatInstitute website –www.iitj.ac.in
Registrar (Offg.)

S. No. Name of the Post Posts Pay Level
(as per 7th CPC) Basic Pay
(as per 7th CPC)
1. Registrar * 01 (UR) Pay Level 14 Rs. 1,44,200
Gross
emoluments : Admissible benefits include Basic Pay, DA, Medical Facility and Transport Allowance, as per Government of
India/Institute rules as applicable at Jodhpur, Rajasthan.
Age Bar : 57 years
Age, qualification and experience will be calculated on the closing date of online submission of applications.
Relaxation in age for the category candidates only would be admissible as per RPR 2021 of IIT Jodhpur/Central
Government Rules.
01 Essential Qualifications:
(1) Masters’ degree in any discipline with at least 55% marks or its equivalent grade ‘B’ in the UGC 7 point scale from a
recognized University/Institute
(2) At least 15 years’ experience as Assistant Professor in AGP of Rs.7,000 / Academic Pay Level 11 and higher, or
at least 8 years of service in the AGP of Rs.8,000 / Academic Pay Level 12 and higher (including Associate Professor),
along with experience in educational administration,
OR
Experience in research establishment and/or other institutions of higher education comparable to that above,
OR
At least 15 years of administrative experience, of which 8 years shall be as Deputy Registrar or equivalent in Pay Level
12 or above
02 Period of Deputation/Tenure, Appointment of Deputation is initially for a period of 2 years which may be extended on
annual basis (subject to satisfactory performance) upto a maximum period of 5 years.
Step 1 Online Registration
Step 2 Online Application Filling
Step 3 *Fee Submission (Online)
Step 4 Submission of Hard Copy of application form along with requisite
documents through Proper Channel, if applicable.
Institute Website Link: https://iitj.ac.in
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
(An Institute of National Importance, Ministry of Education, Govt. of India)
NH 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur, Rajasthan – 342030
VACANCY NOTIFICATION
IIT Jodhpur, an Engineering & Technology Institute of National Importance, is dedicated to education, research and
development. The Institute promotes academic excellence in teaching and technology research. The Institute is looking for 
suitable Indian Nationals, through ONLINE applications only, for appointment of Registrar on Tenure/ Deputation basis.
* Tenure / Deputation post for a period of 05 years.
Details of eligibility criteria, qualification and experience can be downloaded from Institute website (https://www.iitj.ac.in). 
The online application is available at (https://erponline.iitj.ac.in/CAREER/auth/onlineApplication.htm).
Applicants are advised to read complete advertisement carefully before applying.

01 The applicants applying in response to this advertisement should satisfy themselves regarding their eligibility for the
post. They must be fulfilling eligibility criteria as on the closing date of applications failing which their application will
be rejected. The Institute will retain online applications data for non-shortlisted/non-selected candidates only for three
months after completion of recruitment process of the said post.
02 Terminal benefits, if any, will be decided as per Institute norms.
03 Besides pay, the post carries allowances according to the Institute rules, which at present are at par with Central
Government employees.
04 Applicants are advised to ensure, before applying, that they possess at least the minimum essential qualification and
experience laid down for the post.
05 Category applicants are required to attach the valid Caste/required Certificate. PWD applicants are required to attach
the Disability Certificate, in the format prescribed by the Government of India.
06 Institute strives to have a workforce which reflects gender balance, hence, women candidates are encouraged to apply.
07 Age, qualification and experience will be calculated on the closing date of online submission of applications.
08 The Institute reserves the right to:
(a) Hold Written Test, Skill Test, or Interview for selection, whenever circumstances so warrant.
(b) Withdraw the advertised post(s) at any time without giving any reason; and
(c) Offer the post at a level lower than that advertised, depending upon the qualifications, experience and performance
of the candidate;
(d) IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to NOT fill any of the posts advertised.
09 The prescribed Essential Qualification and Experience indicated are a bare minimum; mere possession of same will not
entitle applicants to be called for Test/Interview. Where the number of applications received in response to an
advertisement is large, it may not be convenient and/or possible for the Institute to conduct a test or interview for all
the applicants. In such cases, the Institute may restrict the number of applicants to be called for the Written Test to a
reasonable limit, on the basis of Qualification and Experience higher than the minimum prescribed in the advertisement.
Therefore, applicants should furnish details of all qualifications and experience possessed in the relevant field, over and
above (if any) the minimum qualifications prescribed along with documentary evidences. Applications received without
the complete details are liable to be rejected.
10 Applicants can see the status of recruitment process on Institute website.
11 The Institute reserves the right to relax age, qualifications and/ or experience in exceptional situation / cases, or in case
of persons already holding analogous positions in a university, research institute, industry, etc.
12 Wherever, the post requires experience in a certain Pay/Grade Pay/Pay Level, the same refers only to that in Central
Government (6th/7th CPC). Those serving in the organization under Central or State Government including PSUs/PSEs,
Universities, Banking Sector etc., their Pay/Grade Pay/Pay Level should be equivalent to Pay/Grade Pay/ Pay Level of
6th/7th CPC as required for the post.
13 Higher initial pay may be given to exceptionally qualified and deserving applicants on recommendation(s) of the
Selection Committee.
14 Applicants have to pay a non-refundable application fee of Rs. 1,000 for the advertised post. Persons from the SC, ST, PwD,
Ex-Servicemen, Women, EWS categories and regular employee(s) of IIT Jodhpur are not required to pay application
fee. Submitting the application form and paying fee should be done only through the online process; please visit Institute’s
website (www.iitj.ac.in) for the same. After submission of application and payment of fee, a PDF will be generated of the
completed form. Applicants are required to keep a softcopy of application form for future reference.
15 Persons serving in Government, Semi-Government or Public Sector Undertakings shall be required to produce following
documents, before appearing for the Interview. Without NOC & vigilance clearance no candidate shall be allowed in
the further process of recruitment and no request for relaxation shall be entertained for the same:
1. No Objection Certificate and Vigilance Clearance from the present employer.
2. Certificate in support of experience should be in the prescribed format [Annexure-A].
16 Concerned Applicants should send the printout of complete application alongwith below stated documents
THROUGH PROPER CHANNEL to the “Office of Recruitment (Non-Faculty), IIT Jodhpur Admin Block (East),
Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur-342030” within 10 days of the last date of submission of Application Form. The
candidate will have to clearly superscribe “Application for the post of Registrar (on Tenure/Deputation)” on the
top of the envelope in capital letters.
1. NOC/ Consent Letter from Parent Organization and borrowing, if applicable.
2. Cadre Clearance from Cadre Controlling Authority.
3. Vigilance Clearance Certificate that no Disciplinary/Vigilance case is pending or contemplated against the officer.
4. Certificate that no major/minor penalty has been awarded to him/her during the last ten years.
5. The complete and upto date photocopies of APAR/CR dossiers/Assessment reports of the officers for the last 5 years duly
attested by an officer on each page.
6. Equivalency certificate (IDA/ other scales to 7th CPC pay matrix level), if applicable.
The above-mentioned documents/Certificates are mandatory, otherwise his/her candidature shall not be
considered.
Institute Website Link: https://iitj.ac.in
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS TO APPLICANTS

17 The complete postal address (including Telephone Number, Fax Number, Mobile Number and e-Mail address) of the
present employer mentioning the name of the organization and whether the organization is a Government, Semi-
Government, Autonomous, Public Sector Enterprises or Private Sector, should be indicated in the Application Form.
18 Outstation Applicants called for selection process, will get reimbursement of fare (from the Place of Residence to Jodhpur
and back by the shortest route) as per norms of the Institute through on-line transfer (RTGS/NEFT).
19 MOST IMPORTANT:
(i) Applicants whose qualifying degree has been assessed by the University using the CGPA method, they must
upload the conversation formula for CGPA to percentage as recognized by the University.
(ii) Candidates are also advised to mention experience of each Pay Level / Post individually in application form.
(iii) Incomplete application form, without the attachment of all relevant Certificates (both experience and
professional), will be summarily rejected.
(iv) No request for CORRECTION(s) / ADDITION(s) in the application form shall be entertained. The responsibility
of entries in the application form lies with the Applicant.
20 Canvassing in any form or bringing in any influence political or otherwise, will be a disqualification for the post.
INTERIM ENQUIRIES WILL NOT BE ENTERTAINED.
21 In case of any inadvertent mistake in the process of selection, which may be detected at any stage even after issue of the
appointment letter, the Institute reserves the right to modify, withdraw or cancel any communication made to the
Applicants.
22 After joining the service of the Institute, the persons will have to abide by the Rules, Regulations, Ordinances, Act and
Statutes and of the Institute applicable from time to time. He/ She may be assigned any duty within or outside the
Institute depending upon the exigency of the work.
23 The Institute shall verify the antecedents or documents submitted by a person at the time of appointment or during the tenure
of the service. In case, it is detected that the documents submitted by the candidates are fake, or the person has a clandestine
antecedents or background and has suppressed the said information, then his/her services shall be
terminated forthwith.
24 CANDIDATES ARE ADVISED TO VISIT THE INSTITUTE WEBSITE FOR INFORMATION RELATED TO
SHORTLISTING, SCHEDULE & OTHER UPDATES. NO QUERIES FOR THE SAME SHALL BE ENTERTAINED
THROUGH EMAIL/TELEPHONIC CALLS.
25 The candidate shall retain the mobile number & email address provided at the time of filling the application form as
all further communication shall be made on email and/or mobile number.
26 The applicants are required to apply only through ONLINE process up to 08 December, 2025 till 23:59 Hrs with attachment
of all required documents, failing which candidature will not be considered. The application which will be completed
(frozen) shall only be considered.
For a query related to advertisement, applicant may send e-mail on recruitment@iitj.ac.in. However, enquiry/queries
related to eligibility for the post/interpretation of rules or forwarding of application will not be entertained.
Address:
Office of Recruitment (Non-Faculty)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH-62, Nagaur Road, Karwar
Jodhpur 342 030
Ph: 0291 280 1091
eMail: recruitment@iitj.ac.in
Institute Website Link: https://iitj.ac.in
Registrar (Offg.)

Name of the
Organization Name of the
Post held From
(DD/MM/YY) To
(DD/MM/YY) Total Period
(DD/MM/YY) Nature of
Appointment Field of
Experience/
specialization
Pay Scale/Pay Level
an last Salary drawn Duties performed /
experience gained in brief
in each post Place of Posting Nature of Work
Supervisory Level/
Middle Management
Level/ Head of Branch Remarks, if any
Institute Website Link: https://iitj.ac.in
THE FORM OF CERTIFICATE TO BE PRODUCED BY THE CANDIDATE FOR CLAIMING EXPERIENCE
EXPERIENCE CERTIFICATE FORMAT
Letter Head of the Institution/Issuing Authority
Name of the Organization: ………………………………… 
Address of the Organization: ………………………………
This 
is 
to 
certify 
that 
Shri/Ms 
…………………………………............ 
S/o,D/o, 
W/ 
is 
an 
employee
of………………………………………………………………………………………….. 
and the duties performed by
him/her during the period(d) are as under:
It is certified that above facts and figures are true and based on service records available in our organization.
Signature
Name of the Competent Authority
Stamp of the Competent Authority