SOURCE_PDF: 03c28cd75beb_SITC-of-UPS-along-with-associated-electrical-work-for-12-nos-of-Hostel-at-IITJodhpur-63.pdf

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
NH-62 NAGAUR ROAD KARWAR JODHPUR
Index of Tender documents
Sr. No. 
DETAILS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PAGE NO.
1. Index 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1-1
2. Tender Notice with Performa for Earnest Money Deposit Declaration 
2-5
3. Form “F” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 - 6
4. Terms & condition including IITJ/CPWD Form 7/8 
 
 
 
8-28
5. Proforma of schedules A, B, C, D, E & F 
 
 
 
 
 
29-32
6. Bank Guarantee Bond 
 
 
 
 
 
 
33-33
7. Special Conditions of Contract 
 
 
 
 
 
34-41
8. Make list 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
42-43
9. Schedule of Quantities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44-47
10. Price Bid 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
48-48
This Tender document contains pages One to Forty-Eight only. 
 
NIT Amounting to Rs. 45,57,121.00 (Rupees Forty-Five Lakh Fifty-Seven Thousand One Hundred Twenty-One 
Only)
Superintending Engineer
IIT Jodhpur

NOTICE INVITING E-TENDERS
Superintending Engineer, Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur invites online Percentage Rate Tender from 
Firms/ Contractors for the following work: 
 
1. NIT No 
 
: 
IITJ/OIE/2025-26/18.
3. Sub Head 
 
: 
Electrical Work.
4. Estimated cost 
: 
Rs. 45,57,151.00
5. Earnest money 
: 
Rs. 91,143.00
6. Tender Fee 
: 
Rs. 500.00
7. Period of completion : 
90 Days
8. Last time & date of submission of bid: 28/11/2025 up to 3:00 pm (on line)
The 
bid 
forms 
and 
other 
details 
can 
be 
obtained 
from 
the 
website 
http://www.iitj.ac.in 
or
http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app free of cost. For more clarification you may visit on above website.
Superintending Engineer
IIT Jodhpur
Copy to: - 
 
1. 
DOIP
2. 
ADEI
3. 
Executive Engineer (Civil)
4. 
Assistant Executive Engineer (Electrical-I)
6. 
Office Copy

S. No. NIT
No. Name of Work Estimated
Cost
(in Rs.) Earnest
Money
(in Rs.) Tender
Fees (in
Rs.) Time for
completion
1 .81/62-5202/EIO/JTII SITC of UPS along with
associated electrical work
for 12 nos of Hostel at IIT
Jodhpur.
Sub Head: - Electrical Work Rs. 45,57,151.00 Rs. 91,143.00 Rs. 500/- 90 Days
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
NH-62 NAGAUR ROAD KARWAR JODHPUR
INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS FOR BIDDERS FOR e-TENDERING (Tender Notice)
Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur invite online Percentage Rate Tender on two bid systems through CPP 
Portal from Firms/ Contractors for the following work:
Last date and time of submission of financial & Technical bid : - 28/11/2025 upto 3:00 pm (on line) 
Date and time of opening of Online Technical bid 
 
:- 01/12/2025 at 3:00 pm
Price/Financial bids of eligible bidders as per NIT shall be opened at a later date after scrutiny of Technical 
bids.
1. The successful bidders shall be required to submit a performance guarantee of 5% of the tendered amount
in the form of Bank Guarantee or F.D.R. from a Nationalized/Scheduled Bank within 07 days of issue of 
letter of intent before award of work. In case the contractor is failed to deposit the performance guarantee 
within the specified period, full earnest money will be forfeited and the tender shall be treated as void. The 
performance guarantee shall be initially valid up to the stipulated date of completion plus 06 months 
beyond.
2. Contractors who fulfill the following requirements shall be eligible to apply. Joint ventures are not
Firms/contractors must have completed similar works satisfactorily under Government organization/ 
Public Sector Undertaking / Autonomous bodies only.
i) 
 One similar single electrical work amounting to Rs. 36,45,697.00
Or
ii) 
Two similar electrical work and each single work amounting to Rs. 27,34,273.00
Or
iii) 
Three similar electrical work and each single work amounting to Rs. 18,22,848.00
Works completed during last 7 years ending on the last date of submission of Bid.
iv) 
Earnest money of Rs. 91,143/- in the form of Demand Draft or Fixed Deposit Receipts or through 
RTGS / NEFT of a schedule bank drawn in favour of Director, I.I.T. Jodhpur or online payment 
as per details given in NIT. No relaxation in EMD will be allowed for MSME and MSEs as per 
CPWD works manual.
3. The intending bidder must read the terms and conditions of IITJ/CPWD-6 carefully. He should only
submit his bid if he considers himself eligible and he is in possession of all the documents required.

4. No exemption for submission of EMD/experience of work shall be allowed for MSME. 
5. Information and Instructions for bidders posted on website shall form part of bid document. 
6. The bid document consisting of plans, specifications, the schedule of quantities of various types of items to
be executed and the set of terms and conditions of the contract to be complied with and other necessary 
documents can be seen and downloaded from website http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app in free of 
cost.
7. Completion certificates issued by an officer not below the rank of Executive Engineer or equivalent
level shall be considered.
• 
Similar work means “Internal Electrical work”.
8. The value of executed work shall be brought to current costing level by enhancing the actual value of work
at simple rate of 7% per annum calculated from the date of completion to last date of submission of 
financial bid.
9. IIT Jodhpur is committed to follow the principle of transparency, equity and competitiveness in public
procurement. Before submission of bid each bid should sign integrity pact at respective places and submit 
the bid, if duly signed integrity pact is not submitted by bidder such bid shall not be considered.
10. Those contractors not registered on CPP Portal are required to get registered beforehand. If needed they
can be imparted training on online bidding process as per details available on the website
11. The intending bidder must have valid class-III digital signature to submit the bid. 
12. On opening date, the contractor can login and see the bid opening process. After opening the bids he will
receive the competitor bid sheets.
13. Contractor can upload documents in the form of JPG format and PDF format. 
14. Contractor must ensure to quote rate of each item, while selecting any of the cells a warning appears that if
any cell is left blank the same shall be treated as “0”.Therefore, if any cell is left blank and no rate is quoted 
by the bidder, rate of such item shall be treated as “0” (ZERO).
15. The department reserves the right to reject any prospective application without assigning any reason and
to restrict the list of qualified contractors to any number deemed suitable by it, if too many bids are 
received satisfying the laid down criterion.
16. In e-Tendering intending bidder can quote his rates in figures only. The rates in words, amount of each
item and total is generated automatically. Therefore, the rate quoted by the bidder in figures is to be taken 
as correct.
17. The bid can only be submitted after uploading the mandatory scanned documents such as Demand Draft
or Fixed Deposit Receipts or through RTGS / NEFT towards Tender Fee and EMD (if applicable) in 
favour of Director, I.I.T. Jodhpur or to be deposited with http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app/ NEFT 
facility. 
For online payment through RTGS/NEFT IIT Jodhpur Bank details are as below: 
Name of Bank A/C 
: 
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Account No. 
 
: 
3399101000631
IFSC Code 
 
: 
CNRB0003399
MICR Code 
 
: 
342015501
Name of Bank & Branch 
: 
Canara Bank & IIT Jodhpur.
18. The EMD in original shall be deposited by the lowest tenderer within a week after opening of financial bid
failing which the tender shall be rejected.
19. Certificate of work experience and other documents as specified in the notice inviting tender shall be
scanned and uploaded to the e-Tendering website within the period of bid submission. However, certified 
/ original copy of all the scanned and uploaded documents as specified in web notice may be verified by 
the institute.
20. The bid submitted shall become invalid if:
i. The bidder does not upload all the documents (including GST registration) as stipulated in the bid
ii. The lowest bidder does not deposit original EMD declaration within a week of opening of tender.
iii. In the event of tender being submitted by a firm, it must be signed separately by each partner thereof
or in the event of the absence of any partner, it must be signed on his behalf by a person holding a 
power of attorney authorizing him to do so, such power of attorney to be produced with the tender, 
and it must disclose that the firm is duly registered under the Indian Partnership Act 1932, above not 
submitted.
21. Bid validity shall be 90 days after opening of bids.

22. List of Documents to be scanned and uploaded within the period of bid submission:
i. Affidavit (on Rs. 10 non-judicial stamp with notarized) regarding establishment of proprietorship
firm/ partnership deed/ letter of incorporation for private ltd/ ltd firm with written power of attorney 
(in case of bidder is owner, not required) of authorized signatory.
ii. Proof of deposit of Tender Fee and EMD.
iii. Attested copy of work experience certificate. 
iv. Attested copy of valid PAN, GSTIN Registration.
v. Attested copy of up to date filed return of GST.
vi. Affidavit as per Notice Inviting Tender Condition 1.3 of IITJ/CPWD-6 FOR e-TENDERING.
vii. Acceptance to execute Integrity Pact.
viii. FORM “F” (Duly filled with all relevant required details).
ix. Electrical Contractor License.

STRUCTURE & ORGANISATION
1. Name & Address of the bidder:
2. Telephone no./ Phone no./ Fax no.:
4. Contact Person No.:
7. Tender Fee (UTR No.):
(In case of on-line payment of Tender Fee)
8. 
EMD (UTR No.) 
(In case of on-line payment of Tender Fee):
9. Legal status of the bidder (attach copies of original document defining the legal status):
a. An Individual
b. A proprietary firm
c. 
A firm in partnership
d. A limited company or corporation
5. Designation of individuals authorized to act for the organization…………………………………………….
6. 
Has the bidder or any constituent partner in case of partnership firm, ever abandoned the awarded work
before its completion? If so, give name of the project and reasons for abandonment…………………………
7. 
Has the bidder or any constituent partner in case of partnership firm, ever been debarred/ blacklisted for
tendering in any organization at any time? If so, give details…………………………………………………...
8. 
Has the bidder, or any constituent partner in case of partnership firm, ever been convicted by the court of
law? If so, give details…………………………………………………
Signature of Bidder/Tenderer

Details of the item As per Tender Notice
Earnest Money Deposit to
be submitted As per Tender Notice
Warranty As per Tender Notice, NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Performance security As per Tender Notice, NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
NH-62 NAGAUR ROAD KARWAR JODHPUR
Notice Inviting Tender
Terms & Conditions
Tender 
Documents 
may 
be 
downloaded 
from 
Central 
Public 
Procurement 
Portal
http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app. Aspiring Bidders who have not enrolled / registered in e-procurement 
should enroll / register before participating through the website http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app . The 
portal enrolment is free of cost. Bidders are advised to go through instructions provided at ‘Instructions for online 
Bid Submission ‘. 
 
Tenderers can access tender documents on the website (For searching in the NIC site, kindly go to Tender Search 
option and type ‘IIT’. Thereafter, Click on “GO” button to view all IIT Jodhpur tenders). Select the appropriate 
tender and fill them with all relevant information and submit the completed tender document online on the 
website http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app as per the schedule given in the next page. 
 
No manual bid will be accepted. All quotes (both Technical and Financial should be submitted in the E-
procurement portal).

Tender Type
(Open/Limited/EOI/Auction/Single) Open
Tender Category (Services/Goods/works) Works
Type/Form of Contract (Work/Supply/
Auction/Service/Buy/Empanelment/ Sell) Works
Product Category (Civil Works/Electrical
Works/Fleet Management/ Computer Systems) Electrical
Source of Fund (Institute/Project) Institute NR Budget
Is Multi Currency Allowed No
Date of Issue/Publishing 07/11/2025
Document Download/Sale Start Date 07/11/2025
Document Download/Sale End Date 28/11/2025
Date for Pre-Bid Conference Nil
Venue of Pre-Bid Conference N/A
Last Date and Time for Uploading of Bids As per Tender Notice
Date and Time of Opening of Technical Bids As per Tender Notice
Tender Fee In the form of Demand Draft or Fixed Deposit Receipts or
term deposit or through RTGS / NEFT (for online payment,
IIT Jodhpur Bank account details are as under):
Name of the Bank A/C : Director IIT Jodhpur.
Canara Bank A/C No. : 3399101000631.
Name of the Bank : Canara Bank IIT Jodhpur.
IFSC Code : CNRB0003399.
MICR Code : 342015501.
No. of Covers (1/2/3/4) 02 (Technical and Financial)
Bid Validity days 90 days (From the date of opening of bids)
Address for Communication Assistant Executive Engineer, Office of Infrastructure, W-1
Berm, IIT Jodhpur
Contact No. 0291-2801054
Email Address oie@iitj.ac.in
Schedule

Instructions for Online Bid Submission:
As per the directives of Department of Expenditure, this tender document has been published on the Central 
Public Procurement Portal (URL:http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app). The bidders are required to submit soft 
copies of their bids electronically on the CPP Portal, using valid Digital Signature Certificates. The instructions 
given below are meant to assist the bidders in registering on the CPP Portal, prepare their bids in accordance with 
the requirements and submitting their bids online on the CPP Portal.
More information useful for submitting online bids on the CPP Portal may be obtained at:
REGISTRATION
1) 
Bidders are required to enroll on the e-Procurement module of the Central Public Procurement Portal 
(URL:http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app) by clicking on the link “Click here to Enroll”. Enrolment on 
the CPP Portal is free of charge.
2) 
As part of the enrolment process, the bidders will be required to choose a unique username and assign a 
password for their accounts.
3) 
Bidders are advised to register their valid email address and mobile numbers as part of the registration 
process. These would be used for any communication from the CPP Portal.
4) 
Upon enrolment, the bidders will be required to register their valid Digital Signature Certificate (Class II 
or Class III Certificates with signing key usage) issued by any Certifying Authority recognized by CCA 
India (e.g. Sify / TCS / nCode / eMudhra etc.), with their profile.
5) 
Only one valid DSC should be registered by a bidder. Please note that the bidders are responsible to ensure 
that they do not lend their DSCs to others which may lead to misuse.
6) 
Bidder then logs in to the site through the secured log-in by entering their userID / password and the 
password of the DSC / eToken.
SEARCHING FOR TENDER DOCUMENTS
1) 
There are various search options built in the CPP Portal, to facilitate bidders to search active tenders by 
several parameters. These parameters could include Tender ID, organization name, location, date, value, 
etc. There is also an option of advanced search for tenders, wherein the bidders may combine a number of 
search parameters such as organization name, form of contract, location, date, other keywords etc. to 
search for a tender published on the CPP Portal.
2) 
Once the bidders have selected the tenders they are interested in, they may download the required 
documents / tender schedules. These tenders can be moved to the respective ‘My Tenders’ folder. This 
would enable the CPP Portal to intimate the bidders through SMS / e-mail in case there is any 
corrigendum issued to the tender document.
3) 
The bidder should make a note of the unique Tender ID assigned to each tender, in case they want to 
obtain any clarification / help from the Helpdesk.
PREPARATION OF BIDS
1) 
Bidder should take into account any corrigendum published on the tender document before submitting 
their bids.
2) 
Please go through the tender advertisement and the tender document carefully to understand the 
documents required to be submitted as part of the bid. Please note the number of covers in which the bid

documents have to be submitted, the number of documents - including the names and content of each of 
the document that need to be submitted. Any deviations from these may lead to rejection of the bid.
3) 
Bidder, in advance, should get ready the bid documents to be submitted as indicated in the tender 
document / schedule and generally, they can be in PDF / XLS / RAR / DWF formats. Bid documents may 
be scanned with 100 dpi with black and white option.
4) 
To avoid the time and effort required in uploading the same set of standard documents which are required 
to be submitted as a part of every bid, a provision of uploading such standard documents (e.g. PAN card 
copy, annual reports, auditor certificates etc.) has been provided to the bidders. Bidders can use “My 
Space” area available to them to upload such documents. These documents may be directly submitted from 
the “My Space” area while submitting a bid, and need not be uploaded again and again. This will lead to a 
reduction in the time required for bid submission process.
SUBMISSION OF BIDS
1) 
Bidder should log into the site well in advance for bid submission so that he/she upload the bid in time i.e. 
on or before the bid submission time. Bidder will be responsible for any delay due to other issues.
2) 
The bidder has to digitally sign and upload the required bid documents one by one as indicated in the 
tender document.
3) 
Bidder has to select the payment option as “on-line” to pay the tender fee / EMD as applicable and enter 
details of the instrument. Whenever, EMD / Tender fees are sought, bidders need to pay the tender fee and 
EMD separately on-line through RTGS or scan copy of original demand draft (Refer to Schedule, Page 
No.2).
4) 
A standard BoQ format has been provided with the tender document to be filled by all the bidders. Bidders 
are requested to note that they should necessarily submit their financial bids in the format provided and no 
other format is acceptable. Bidders are required to download the BoQ file, open it and complete the white 
coloured (unprotected) cells with their respective financial quotes and other details (such as name of the 
bidder). No other cells should be changed. Once the details have been completed, the bidder should save it 
and submit it online, without changing the filename. If the BoQ file is found to be modified by the bidder, 
the bid will be rejected.
OR
In some cases, Financial Bids can be submitted in PDF format as well (in lieu of BOQ).
5) 
The server time (which is displayed on the bidders’ dashboard) will be considered as the standard time for 
referencing the deadlines for submission of the bids by the bidders, opening of bids etc. The bidders should 
follow this time during bid submission.
6) 
All the documents being submitted by the bidders would be encrypted using PKI encryption techniques to 
ensure the secrecy of the data. The data entered cannot be viewed by unauthorized persons until the time 
of bid opening. The confidentiality of the bids is maintained using the secured Socket Layer 128 bit 
encryption technology. Data storage encryption of sensitive fields is done.
7) 
The uploaded tender documents become readable only after the tender opening by the authorized bid 
openers.
8) 
Upon the successful and timely submission of bids, the portal will give a successful bid submission 
message & a bid summary will be displayed with the bid no. and the date & time of submission of the bid 
with all other relevant details.
9) 
Kindly add scanned PDF of all relevant documents in a single PDF file of compliance sheet.

ASSISTANCE TO BIDDERS
1. 
Any queries relating to the tender document and the terms and conditions contained therein should be 
addressed to the Tender Inviting Authority for a tender or the relevant contact person indicated in the 
tender.
2. 
Any queries relating to the process of online bid submission or queries relating to CPP Portal in general 
may be directed to the 24x7 CPP Portal Helpdesk. The contact number for the helpdesk is 1800 233 7315.
General Instructions to the Bidders
1) 
The tenders will be received online through portal http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app . In the Technical 
Bids, the bidders are required to upload all the documents in .pdf format.
2) 
Possession of a Valid Class II/III Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) in the form of smart card/e-token in 
the company's name is a prerequisite for registration and participating in the bid submission activities 
through https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app . Digital Signature Certificates can be obtained from the 
authorized 
certifying 
agencies, 
details 
of 
which 
are 
available 
in 
the 
web 
site
https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app under the link “Information about DSC”.
3) 
Tenderer are advised to follow the instructions provided in the ‘Instructions to the Tenderer for the e-
submission of the bids online through the Central Public Procurement Portal for e Procurement at 
https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app.

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
Tenders have been invited on the basis of standard Forms 7/8 and General Conditions of contract for the 
work in Central Public Works Department (CPWD). However, in the contact of IIT Jodhpur, the following 
terms may be read as:
S. 
 As per Standard Forms 
 
 
 
To be read as
I 
 President of India 
 
 
 
Director, IIT Jodhpur
II 
Government of India 
 
 
 
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
III 
Central Public Works Departments 
 
Office of Infrastructure Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
IV 
Chief Engineer, CPWD 
 Dean of Infrastructure Planning, IIT Jodhpur
V 
Circle Office 
 
 
 
 
Office of Infrastructure Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
Superintending Engineer
Office of Infrastructure Engineering.

S.
No. Specification
1. Due date: The tender has to be submitted online before the due date. The offers received after the due date
and time will not be considered. No manual bids will be considered.
2. Preparation of Bids: The offer/bid should be submitted in two bid systems (i.e.) Technical bid and
financial bid. The technical bid should consist of all technical details along with commercial terms and
conditions. Financial bid should indicate item wise price for the items mentioned in the technical bid in the
given format i.e BOQ_XXXX.
OR
Financial Bids to be submitted in Excel.
The Technical bid and the financial bid should be submitted online.
3. EMD (if applicable): As per NIT
4. Refund of EMD: As per NIT
5. Opening of the tender: As per Tender Notice, NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
6. Acceptance/ Rejection of bids: The Committee reserves the right to reject any or all offers without
assigning any reason.
7. Pre-qualification criteria: Mentioned in Tender notice
8. Performance Security: Mentioned in Tender notice
9. Force Majeure: As per IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
10. Risk & Cost Clause: As per IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
11. Delivery and Documents: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
12. Delayed delivery: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
13. Prices: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
14. Progress of Work: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
15. Inspection and Tests: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
16. Resolution of Disputes: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
17. Applicable Law: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
18. Supplier Integrity: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
19. Training: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
20. Installation & Demonstration: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
21. Incidental services: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
22. Defect liability Period: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
23. Governing Language: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
24. Applicable Law: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
25. Notices: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
26. Taxes: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
27. Termination for Default: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
28. Disputes and Jurisdiction: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
29. Completion certificate: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Terms & Conditions Details

S. No. Technical Bid Requirement As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7
(Duly attested) Compliance Y/N
1 Tender Fee.
3 Experience Certificate.
4 PAN Card and GSTIN Registration.
5 Up to date filed return of GST.
6 Affidavit as per Notice Inviting Tender Condition 1.3 at page 16 of NIT.
7 INTEGRITY PACT Acceptance.
8 FORM-F (duly filled with all required details).
9 Electrical contractor License.
10 Affidavit as per Notice Inviting Tender Condition 22(i) at page 5 of NIT.
11 List of Govt. Organization as per Annexure-II
COMPLIANCE SHEET
I have also enclosed all relevant documents in support of my claims, (as above) in the following pages.
Signature of Bidder
Organization Name: __________________________
Contact No. : ____________________________

Name of the organization Name of Contact Person Contact No.
List of Govt. Organization/ Department.
Signature of Bidder
Organization Name: __________________________
Contact No. : ____________________________

IITJ/CPWD -6 FOR e-TENDERING
Percentage rate tenders are invited from contractors/firms engaged in the field of Electrical work in 
appropriate category for the work as per tender notice.
1. 
The contractor should have valid electrical contractor license on the last date of submission of tenders. In 
case the last date of submission of tender is extended, the Electrical contractor license should be valid on 
the original date of submission of tenders.
1.1 
The work is estimated to cost as per tender notice. This estimate, however, is given merely as a rough 
guide.
1.2 
Details of criteria for eligibility as Indicated in “INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS FOR 
CONTRACTORS FOR e-TENDERING FORMING PART OF NIT AND TO BE POSTED ON WEBSITE”
1.3 
To become eligible for issue of tender, the tenderer shall have to furnish an affidavit.
(i) 
Affidavit shall be purchased /notarized on or after NIT published date but on or before last date 
of submission of NIT.
(ii) 
Affidavit must have “NIT/tender reference number” and “Name of work” and shall be used 
once for each fresh tender. 
No back dated affidavit shall be entertained and non-compliance of point (i) & (ii) shall lead to 
rejection of the tender.
Affidavit should be as mentioned under: -
“I/We undertake and confirm that eligible similar works(s) has/have not been got executed through 
another contractor on back to back basis. Further that, if such a violation comes to the notice of 
Department, then I/we shall be debarred for tendering in IIT Jodhpur in future forever. Also, if such a 
violation comes to the notice of Department before date of start of work, the Engineer-in-Charge shall 
be free to forfeit the entire amount of Earnest Money Deposit/Performance Guarantee.” (Scanned 
copy to be uploaded at the time of submission of bid)
2. 
Agreement shall be drawn with the successful bidders on prescribed Form No. IITJ/CPWD form No. 7 
(or other standard form as mentioned), which is available as a Govt. of India Publication. Bidders shall 
quote his rates as per various terms and conditions of the said form which will form part of the 
agreement.
3. 
The time allowed for carrying out the work will be as per tender notice from the date of start as defined 
in schedule ‘F’ or from the first date of handing over of the site, whichever is later, in accordance with the 
phasing, if any, indicated in the tender documents.
4. 
The site for the work is available.
5. 
The bid document consisting of plans, specifications, the schedule of quantities of various types of items 
to be executed and the set of terms and conditions of the contract to be complied with and other 
necessary documents except Standard General Conditions of Contract Form can be seen from the web 
Site http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app or iitj.ac.in or e-procure.gov free of cost.
6. 
After submission of the bid the contractor can re-submit revised bid any number of times but before last 
time and date of submission of tender as notified.
7. 
While submitting the revised bid, contractor can revise the rate of one or more item(s) any number of 
times (he need not re-enter rate of all the items) but before last time and date of submission of tender as 
notified.
8. 
If it is desired to submit revised financial bid, then it shall be mandatory to submit revised financial bid. 
If not submitted, then the tender submitted earlier shall become invalid.
9. 
Earnest Money in the form of Demand Draft or Fixed Deposit Receipts (drawn in favour of Director IIT 
Jodhpur) or through RTGS / NEFT from any Scheduled/ Nationalized Bank and shall be scanned & 
uploaded to the e-tendering website within the period of tender submission and original should be

deposited by lowest bidder within a week after the opening of financial bid in office of Superintending 
Engineer, IIT Jodhpur.
10. 
The time & date of submission & opening of financial bid of contractors qualifying the criteria as per 
Tender Notice shall be communicated to them at a later date.
11. 
The successful bidders shall be required to submit a performance guarantee of 5% of the tendered 
amount in the form of Bank Guarantee or F.D.R. from a Nationalized/Scheduled Bank within 07 days of 
issue of letter of intent before award of work. In case the contractor is failed to deposit the performance 
guarantee within the specified period, full earnest money will be forfeited and the tender shall be treated 
as void. The performance guarantee shall be initially valid up to the stipulated date of completion plus 06 
months beyond.
12. 
The earnest money deposited along with bid shall be returned after receiving the aforesaid performance 
guarantee. In case the contractor fails to deposit the said performance guarantee within the period as 
indicated in Schedule ‘F’ including the extended period if any, the Earnest Money deposited by the 
contractor shall be forfeited automatically without any notice to the contractor.
13. 
Intending Bidders are advised to inspect and examine the site and its surroundings and satisfy 
themselves before submitting their tenders as to the nature of the ground and sub-soil (so far as is 
practicable), the form and nature of the site, the means of access to the site, the accommodation they may 
require and in general shall themselves obtain all necessary information as to risks, contingencies and 
other circumstances which may influence or affect their tender. Bidder shall be deemed to have full 
knowledge of the site whether he inspects it or not and no extra charge consequent to any 
misunderstanding or otherwise shall be allowed. The tenderer shall be responsible for arranging and 
maintaining at his own cost all materials, tools & plants, water, electricity, access, facilities for workers 
and all other services required for executing the work unless otherwise specifically provided for in the 
contract documents. Submission of a tender by a tenderer implies that he has read this notice and all 
other contract documents and has made himself aware of the scope and specifications of the work to be 
done and of conditions and rates at which stores, tools and plant, etc. will be issued to him by the 
Government , local conditions and other factors having a bearing on the execution of the work.
14. 
The competent authority does not bind itself to accept the lowest or any other tender and reserves to 
itself the authority to reject any or all the tenders received without the assignment of any reason. All 
tenders in which any of the prescribed condition is not fulfilled or any condition including that of 
conditional rebate is put forth by the tenderer shall be summarily rejected.
15. 
Canvassing whether directly or indirectly, in connection with tenderers is strictly prohibited and the 
tenders submitted by the contractors who resort to canvassing will be liable to rejection.
16. 
The competent authority reserves the right to accept the whole or any part of the tender and the tenderer 
shall be bound to perform the same at the rate quoted.
17. 
The bidder shall not be permitted to tender for works in the IIT Jodhpur responsible for award and 
execution of contracts, in which his near relative is posted as a Divisional Accountant or as an officer in 
any capacity between the grades of Dean of Infrastructure Planning and Junior Engineer (both inclusive). 
The contract shall be withdrawn if any bidder is found violating this condition.
18. 
No Engineer of Gazetted rank or other Gazetted Officer employed in Engineering or Administrative 
duties in an Engineering Department of the Government of India is allowed to work as a contractor for a 
period of one year after his retirement from Government service, without the previous permission of the 
Government of India in writing. This contract is liable to be cancelled if either the contractor or any of his 
employees is found at any time to be such a person who had not obtained the permission of the 
Government of India as aforesaid before submission of the tender or engagement in the contractor’s 
service.
19. 
The tender for the works shall remain open for acceptance for a period of ninety (90) days from the date 
of opening of tender. If any tenderer withdraws his tender before the said period or issue of letter of 
acceptance, whichever is earlier, or makes any modifications in the terms and conditions of the tender 
which are not acceptable to the department, then the institute shall, without prejudice to any other right

or remedy, be at liberty to forfeit 50% of the said earnest money as aforesaid. Further the tenderer shall 
not be allowed to participate in the retendering process of the work.
20. 
This notice inviting tender shall form a part of the contract document. The successful tenderer / 
contractor, on acceptance of his tender by the Accepting Authority shall within 15 days from the 
stipulated date of start of the work, sign the contract consisting of:
a. The Notice Inviting Tender, all the documents including additional conditions, specifications and
drawings, if any, forming part of the tender as uploaded at the time of invitation of tender and the 
rates quoted online at the time of submission of bid and acceptance thereof together with any 
correspondence leading thereto.
b. Standard IITJ/CPWD Form – 7/8 or other Standard IITJ Form as mentioned.
Superintending Engineer
IIT Jodhpur

INTEGRATY PACT e-TENDERING I.I.T.J
Subject: - SITC of UPS along with associated electrical work for 12 nos of Hostel at IIT Jodhpur.
Sub Head: - Electrical Work. 
 
Dear Sir,
It is hereby declared that I.I.T. Jodhpur is committed to follow the principle of transparency, equity
and competitiveness in public procurement.
The subject Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) is an invitation to offer made on the condition that the
Bidder will sign the integrity Agreement, which is an integral part of tender/bid documents, failing which 
the tenderer / bidder will stand disqualified from the tendering process and the bid of the bidder would be 
summarily rejected.
This declaration shall form part and parcel of the Integrity Agreement and signing of the same
shall be deemed as acceptance and signing of the Integrity Agreement on behalf of the I.I.T. Jodhpur.
Yours faithfully
Superintending Engineer
Office of Infrastructure Engineering

Acceptance to execute integrity pact I.I.T.J
Submission of Bid for the “ SITC of UPS along with associated electrical work for
(To be signed by bidder and upload the scanned copy)
To, 
Superintending Engineer, 
IIT Jodhpur, NH 62 Nagour Road Karwar 
Jodhpur Rajasthan.
Sub Head: 
Electrical Work
Dear Sir,
I/We acknowledge that I.I.T. Jodhpur is committed to follow the principles thereof as
enumerated in the Integrity Agreement enclosed with the tender/bid document.
I/We agree that the Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) is an invitation to offer made on the
condition that I/We will sign the enclosed integrity Agreement, which is an integral part of tender / 
bid documents, failing which I/We will stand disqualified from the tendering process. I/We 
acknowledge that THE MAKING OF THE BID SHALL BE REGARDED AS AN UNCONDITIONAL 
AND ABSOLUTE ACCEPTANCE of this condition of the NIT.
I/We confirm acceptance and compliance with the Integrity Agreement in letter and spirit and
further agree that execution of the said Integrity Agreement shall be separate and distinct from the 
main contract, which will come into existence when tender/bid is finally accepted by I.I.T. Jodhpur. 
I/We acknowledge and accept the duration of the Integrity Agreement, which shall be in the line with 
Article 1 of the enclosed Integrity Agreement.
I/We acknowledge that in the event of my/our failure to sign and accept the Integrity
Agreement, while submitting the tender/bid, I.I.T. Jodhpur shall have unqualified, absolute and 
unfettered right to disqualify the tender / bidder and reject the tender/bid is accordance with terms 
and conditions of the tender/bid.
Yours faithfully
(Duly authorized signatory of the Bidder)

INTEGRATY PACT e-TENDERING I.I.T.J
To be signed by the bidder and same signatory competent / authorized to
sign the relevant contract on behalf of IIT Jodhpur.
INTEGRITY AGREEMENT
This Integrity Agreement is made at ...........................................on this....................day of................. 2..........
BETWEEN
The Director, IIT Jodhpur represented through Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur
................................................................................................................................................, (Hereinafter referred as the
(Address of Division)
‘Principal/Owner’, which expression shall unless repugnant to the meaning or context hereof include its 
successors and permitted assigns)
AND
(Name and Address of the Individual /firm/Company)
through............................................................................................................................. (Hereinafter referred to as the
(Details of duly authorized signatory)
“Bidder/Contractor” and which expression shall unless repugnant to the meaning or context hereof include 
its successors and permitted assigns) 
 
Preamble
WHEREAS the Principal / Owner has floated the Tender (NIT No. .......................................) (Hereinafter 
referred to as “Tender/Bid”) and intends to award, under laid down organizational procedure, contract 
for……………………. 
 
…………...................................................................................................................................................................................
(Name of work)
hereinafter referred to as the “Contract”.
AND WHEREAS the Principal/Owner values full compliance with all relevant laws of the land, rules, 
regulations, economic use of resources and of fairness/transparency in its relation with its Bidder(s) and 
Contractor(s). 
 
AND WHEREAS to meet the purpose aforesaid both the parties have agreed to enter into this Integrity 
Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “Integrity Pact” or “Pact”), the terms and conditions of which shall also 
be read as integral part and parcel of the Tender/Bid documents and Contract between the parties. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of mutual covenants contained in this Pact, the parties hereby agree as 
follows and this Pact witnesses as under:

Article 1: Commitment of the Principal/Owner
1) 
The Principal/Owner commits itself to take all measures necessary to prevent corruption and to 
observe the following principles:
(a) 
No employee of the Principal/Owner, personally or through any of his/her family members, 
will in connection with the Tender, or the execution of the Contract, demand, take a promise 
for or accept, for self or third person, any material or immaterial benefit which the person is 
not legally entitled to.
(b) 
The Principal/Owner will, during the Tender process, treat all Bidder(s) with equity and 
reason. The Principal/Owner will, in particular, before and during the Tender process, 
provide to all Bidder(s) the same information and will not provide to any Bidder(s) 
confidential / additional information through which the Bidder(s) could obtain an advantage 
in relation to the Tender process or the Contract execution.
(c) 
The Principal/Owner shall endeavor to exclude from the Tender process any person, whose 
conduct in the past has been of biased nature.
2) 
If the Principal/Owner obtains information on the conduct of any of its employees which is a criminal 
offence under the Indian Penal code (IPC)/Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (PC Act) or is in 
violation of the principles herein mentioned or if there be a substantive suspicion in this regard, the 
Principal/Owner will inform the Chief Vigilance Officer and in addition can also initiate disciplinary 
actions as per its internal laid down policies and procedures.
Article 2: Commitment of the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s)
1) 
It is required that each Bidder/Contractor (including their respective officers, employees and agents) 
adhere to the highest ethical standards, and report to the Government / Department all suspected 
acts of fraud or corruption or Coercion or Collusion of which it has knowledge or becomes aware, 
during the tendering process and throughout the negotiation or award of a contract.
2) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) commits himself to take all measures necessary to prevent 
corruption. He commits himself to observe the following principles during his participation in the 
Tender process and during the Contract execution:
a) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other person or firm, offer, 
promise or give to any of the Principal/Owner’s employees involved in the Tender process or 
execution of the Contract or to any third person any material or other benefit which he/she is 
not legally entitled to, in order to obtain in exchange any advantage of any kind whatsoever 
during the Tender process or during the execution of the Contract.
b) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not enter with other Bidder(s) into any undisclosed 
agreement or understanding, whether formal or informal. This applies in particular to prices, 
specifications, certifications, subsidiary contracts, submission or non-submission of bids or 
any other actions to restrict competitiveness or to cartelize in the bidding process.
c) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not commit any offence under the relevant IPC/PC Act. 
Further the Bidder(s)/Contract(s) will not use improperly, (for the purpose of competition or 
personal gain), or pass on to others, any information or documents provided by the 
Principal/Owner as part of the business relationship, regarding plans, technical proposals 
and business details, including information contained or transmitted electronically.
d) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) of foreign origin shall disclose the names and addresses of 
agents/representatives in India, if any. Similarly Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) of Indian 
Nationality shall disclose names and addresses of foreign agents/representatives, if any. 
Either the Indian agent on behalf of the foreign principal or the foreign principal directly 
could bid in a tender but not both. Further, in cases where an agent participate in a tender on 
behalf of one manufacturer, he shall not be allowed to quote on behalf of another

manufacturer along with the first manufacturer in a subsequent/parallel tender for the same 
item.
e) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will, when presenting his bid, disclose any and all payments he 
has made, is committed to or intends to make to agents, brokers or any other intermediaries 
in connection with the award of the Contract.
3) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not instigate third persons to commit offences outlined above or be 
an accessory to such offences.
4) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other person or firm indulge in 
fraudulent practice means a willful misrepresentation or omission of facts or submission of 
fake/forged documents in order to induce public official to act in reliance thereof, with the purpose 
of obtaining unjust advantage by or causing damage to justified interest of others and/or to 
influence the procurement process to the detriment of the Government interests.
5) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other person or firm use Coercive 
Practices (means the act of obtaining something, compelling an action or influencing a decision 
through intimidation, threat or the use of force directly or indirectly, where potential or actual injury 
may befall upon a person, his/ her reputation or property to influence their participation in the 
tendering process).
Article 3: Consequences of Breach
Without prejudice to any rights that may be available to the Principal/Owner under law or the Contract or 
its established policies and laid down procedures, the Principal/Owner shall have the following rights in 
case of breach of this Integrity Pact by the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) and the Bidder/ Contractor accepts and 
undertakes to respect and uphold the Principal/Owner’s absolute right:
1) 
If the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s), either before award or during execution of Contract has committed a 
transgression through a violation of Article 2 above or in any other form, such as to put his reliability 
or credibility in question, the Principal/Owner after giving 14 days’ notice to the contractor shall have 
powers to disqualify the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) from the Tender process or terminate/determine the 
Contract, if already executed or exclude the Bidder/Contractor from future contract award processes. 
The imposition and duration of the exclusion will be determined by the severity of transgression and 
determined by the Principal/Owner. Such exclusion may be forever or for a limited period as 
decided by the Principal/Owner.
2) 
Forfeiture of EMD/Performance Guarantee/Security Deposit: If the Principal/Owner has 
disqualified the Bidder(s) from the Tender process prior to the award of the Contract or 
terminated/determined the Contract or has accrued the right to terminate/determine the Contract 
according to Article 3(1), the Principal/Owner apart from exercising any legal rights that may have 
accrued to the Principal/Owner, may in its considered opinion forfeit the entire amount of Earnest 
Money Deposit, Performance Guarantee and Security Deposit of the Bidder/Contractor.
3) 
Criminal Liability: If the Principal/Owner obtains knowledge of conduct of a Bidder or Contractor, 
or of an employee or a representative or an associate of a Bidder or Contractor which constitutes 
corruption within the meaning of IPC Act, or if the Principal/Owner has substantive suspicion in this 
regard, the Principal/Owner will inform the same to law enforcing agencies for further investigation.
Article 4: Previous Transgression
1) 
The Bidder declares that no previous transgressions occurred in the last 5 years with any other 
Company in any country confirming to the anticorruption approach or with Central Government or 
State Government or any other Central/State Public Sector Enterprises in India that could justify his 
exclusion from the Tender process.
2) 
If the Bidder makes incorrect statement on this subject, he can be disqualified from the Tender process 
or action can be taken for banning of business dealings/ holiday listing of the Bidder/Contractor as 
deemed fit by the Principal/ Owner.

3) 
If the Bidder/Contractor can prove that he has resorted / recouped the damage caused by him and 
has installed a suitable corruption prevention system, the Principal/Owner may, at its own 
discretion, revoke the exclusion prematurely.
Article 5: Equal Treatment of all Bidders/Contractors/Subcontractors
1) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) undertake(s) to demand from all subcontractors a commitment in 
conformity with this Integrity Pact. The Bidder/Contractor shall be responsible for any violation(s) of 
the principles laid down in this agreement/Pact by any of its Sub-contractors/sub-vendors.
2) 
The Principal/Owner will enter into Pacts on identical terms as this one with all Bidders and 
Contractors.
3) 
The Principal/Owner will disqualify Bidders, who do not submit, the duly signed Pact between the 
Principal/Owner and the bidder, along with the Tender or violate its provisions at any stage of the 
Tender process, from the Tender process.
Article 6- Duration of the Pact
This Pact begins when both the parties have legally signed it. It expires for the Contractor/Vendor 09 
Months after the completion of work under the contract or till the continuation of defect liability period, 
whichever is more and for all other bidders, till the Contract has been awarded. 
 
If any claim is made/lodged during the time, the same shall be binding and continue to be valid despite 
the lapse of this Pacts as specified above, unless it is discharged/determined by the Competent Authority, 
I.I.T. Jodhpur.
Article 7- Other Provisions
1) 
This Pact is subject to Indian Law, place of performance and jurisdiction is the Headquarters of the 
Division of the Principal/Owner, who has floated the Tender.
2) 
 Changes and supplements need to be made in writing. Side agreements have not been made.
3) 
If the Contractor is a partnership or a consortium, this Pact must be signed by all the partners or by 
one or more partner holding power of attorney signed by all partners and consortium members. In 
case of a Company, the Pact must be signed by a representative duly authorized by board resolution.
4) 
Should one or several provisions of this Pact turn out to be invalid; the remainder of this Pact remains 
valid. In this case, the parties will strive to come to an agreement to their original intensions.
5) 
It is agreed term and condition that any dispute or difference arising between the parties with regard 
to the terms of this Integrity Agreement / Pact, any action taken by the Owner/Principal in 
accordance with this Integrity Agreement/ Pact or interpretation thereof shall not be subject to 
arbitration.
Article 8- LEGAL AND PRIOR RIGHTS
All rights and remedies of the parties hereto shall be in addition to all the other legal rights and remedies 
belonging to such parties under the Contract and/or law and the same shall be deemed to be cumulative 
and not alternative to such legal rights and remedies aforesaid. For the sake of brevity, both the Parties 
agree that this Integrity Pact will have precedence over the Tender/Contact documents with regard any of 
the provisions covered under this Integrity Pact. 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have signed and executed this Integrity Pact at the place and date first

above mentioned in the presence of following witnesses:
............................................................... 
(For and on behalf of Principal/Owner) 
 
................................................................. 
(For and on behalf of Bidder/Contractor) 
 
WITNESSES:
(signature, name and address)
(signature, name and address)

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Jodhpur
Percentage Rate Tender & Contract for Works
Sub Head: - Electrical Work.
(C) To be submitted by as per tender notice …………………………………..........................................................
(C) To be opened in presence of bidders who may be present at as per tender notice …………..…………….
Issued to……………..………………………………………………………………………………………………
Signature of officer issuing the documents ………..…………..……………………………………………………..
Date of Issue …………………..………………………………………………………………………………………...
TENDER
I/We have read and examined the notice inviting tender, schedule, A, B, C, D, E & F Specifications 
applicable, Drawings & Designs, General Rules and Directions, Conditions of Contract, clauses of contract, 
Special conditions, Schedule of Rate & other documents and Rules referred to in the conditions of contract 
and all other contents in the tender document for the work. 
 
I/We hereby tender for the execution of the work specified for I.I.T. Jodhpur, within the time specified in 
Schedule ‘F’ viz., schedule of quantities and in accordance in all respect with the specifications, designs, 
drawing and instructions in writing referred to in Rule-1 of General Rules and Directions and in Clause 11 
of the Conditions of contract and with such materials as are provided for, by, and in respect of accordance 
with, such conditions so far as applicable. 
 
We agree to keep the tender open for Ninety (90) days from the date of opening of bid.
A sum of as per tender notice is hereby forwarded in Banker Cheque or Demand Draft or Fixed Deposit 
receipt of a schedule bank drawn in favour of IIT Jodhpur earnest money. If I/We, fail to furnish the 
prescribed performance guarantee within prescribed period. I/We agree that the I.I.T. Jodhpur or his 
successors, in office shall without prejudice to any other right or remedy, be at liberty to forfeit the said 
earnest money absolutely. Further, if I/We fail to commence work as specified, I/We agree that The I.I.T. 
Jodhpur or the successors in office shall without prejudice to any other right or remedy available in law, be 
at liberty to forfeit the said earnest money and the performance guarantee absolutely, otherwise the said 
earnest money shall be retained by him towards security deposit to execute all the works referred to in the 
tender documents upon the terms and conditions contained or referred to those in excess of that limit at 
the rates to be determined in accordance with the provision contained in Clause 12.2 and 12.3 of the tender 
form. Further, I/We agree that in case of forfeiture of Earnest Money & Performance Guarantee as 
aforesaid. I/We shall be debarred for participation in the re-tendering process of the work.
I/We undertake and confirm that eligible similar work(s) has/have not been got executed through another 
contractor on back to back basis. Further that, if such a violation comes to the notice of Department, then 
I/We shall be debarred for tendering in I.I.T. Jodhpur in future forever. Also, if such a violation comes to 
the notice of Department before date of start of work, the Engineer-in-Charge shall be free to forfeit the 
entire amount of Earnest Money Deposit/Performance Guarantee.

I/We hereby declare that I/We shall treat the tender documents drawings and other records connected 
with the work as secret/confidential documents and shall not communicate information/derived there 
from to any person other than a person to whom I/We am/are authorized to communicate the same or use 
the information in any manner prejudicial to the safety of the State.
Signature of Contractor
Postal Address

ACCEPTANCE
The above tender (as modified by you as provided in the letters mentioned hereunder) is
accepted 
by 
me 
for 
an 
on 
behalf 
of 
I.I.T. 
Jodhpur 
for 
a 
sum 
of
The letters referred to below form part of this contract agreement:
For & on behalf of IIT Jodhpur
Signature …………………………………..
Designation ………………………….

PROFORMA OF SCHEDULES
3) I.I.T.J
S. No. Description of item Quantity Rates in figures &
words at which the
material will be
charged to the
Contractor Place of issue
S. No. Description Hire charges per day Place of Issue
PROFORMA OF SCHEDULES
SCHEDULE ‘A’
Schedule of quantities (enclosed)
SCHEDULE ‘B’
Schedule of materials to be issued to the contractor.
SCHEDULE ‘C’
Tools and plants to be hired to the contractor
SCHEDULE ‘D’
Extra schedule for specific requirements/document for the work, if any.
SCHEDULE ‘E’
Reference to General Conditions of contract: General Conditions of contract for CPWD/IITJ Works 2024: GCC 
2023 for Construction Works, Form-7 for CPWD works as amended up to last date of submission of 
bid.
Name of work: SITC of UPS along with associated electrical work for 12 nos of Hostel at IIT Jodhpur.
Sub Head: Upgradation Work.
(i) 
Estimated cost of work 
: 
As per Tender Notice
(ii) 
Earnest Money 
: 
As per Tender Notice
(iii) 
Performance Guarantee 
: 
As per Tender Notice
(iv) 
Security Deposit 
: 
2.5% of the gross amount of each running and final bill till 
the sum deducted will amount to security deposit of 2.5% of the 
tendered amount of the work.

Officer inviting tender Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur
Maximum percentage for quantity of
items of work to be executed beyond
which rates are to be determined in
accordance with Clauses 12.2 & 12.3 See Below
Engineer-in-charge Assistant Executive Engineer (Electrical-1) Assistant Executive Engineer (Electrical-1)
Accepting Authority Deputy Director, IIT Jodhpur
Percentage on cost of materials and
labor to cover all overhead & profits 15%
Standard schedule of Rates DSR 2022 (E &M) with up to date correction slips and
Department Office of Infrastructure Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
Standard IITJ contract Form General Conditions of contract for CPWD for
(i) Time allowed for submission of Performance guarantee,
Programme Chart (Time and Progress) and applicable labour
licenses, registration with EPFO, ESIC and BOCW Welfare Board
including Provident Fund Code No. or proof of applying thereof
from date of issue of letter of acceptance. 07 Days
(ii) Maximum allowable extension with late fee @ 0.1% per day of
performance guarantee amount beyond the period provided in (i)
above 07 Days
Authority for fixing Compensation under Clause 2 Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur.
Whether clause 2A is applicable Not applicable
Number of days from the date of issue of letter of
acceptance for reckoning date of start of start mile
stone(s) as per table given below: 10 Days
SI
No. Description of Milestone (Physical) Time Allowed in
days (from date of
start) Amount to be with-held
in case of non-
achievement of
milestone
1. Supply of all electrical item such as DB, 20 Days 10% of bill value
SCHEDULE ‘F’

2. Supply of UPS with batteries 50 Days 10% of bill value
3. Installation, Testing & Commissioning of
UPSs along with electrical work. 90 Days 10% of bill value
Time allowed for execution of work 90 Days
(i) Extension of time Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur
(ii) Rescheduling of mile stones Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur
(iii) Shifting of date of start in case of delay in
handing over of site Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur
Clause applicable - Computerized Measurement Book (CMB)/
Electronic Measurement Book (EMB)
Gross work to be done together with net payment
/adjustment of advances for material collected, if
any, since the last such payment for being eligible
to interim payment Rs. Fifteen Lacs or as mutually agreed by both
the parties.
Clause 10B Not Applicable
Whether Clause 10 B (ii) shall be applicable No
Component of labour expressed as percentage of
value of work 25 %
Clause 10CC escalation clause Not Applicable
Component of civil (except materials covered under
clause 10CA) /Electrical construction Materials
expressed as percent of total value of work. - Xm..........%
expressed as percent of total value of work. Y.......... %
expressed as percent of total value of work. Z.......... %
Specifications to be followed for execution of work CPWD specifications 2019 Vol-1&2 for civil and
Part-I Internal 2023 and Part-II External 2023 for
electrical works with upto date correction slips &
manufacturers specifications & NIT
Type of work SITC of UPS along with associated electrical
12.2. & 12.3 Deviation Limit beyond which clauses
shall apply for building work 100%
Competent Authority for deciding reduced rates Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur

Settlement of dispute by conciliation and
arbitration Director, Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
S.
No. Requirement of Technical
Staff Minimum
Experience
(Years) Designation of Technical Staff Rate at which
recovery shall be
made from the
contractor in the
event of not
fulfilling provision
of clause
Qualification Number
1. Graduate
Engineer or
Diploma
Engineer 1 2 or 5
respectively Project Manager cum
Planning/Quality/Site/Billing
Engineer Rs. 15000/- per
month
(i) Schedule/statement for determining theoretical
quantity of cement & bitumen on the basis of Delhi
Schedule of Rates DSR 2022 with correction slips issued
upto last date of submission of bid
(ii) Variations permissible on theoretical quantities
a. Cement for works estimated cost put to tender
not more than Rs. 25 Lakhs 3 % plus/minus
(i) For works with estimated cost put to tender
more than Rs. 25 Lakhs 2 % plus/minus
b. Bitumen for all works 2.5% plus only & nil on minus side
c. Steel reinforcement and structural steel section
for each diameter, section and category 2% plus/minus
d. All other materials Nil
Excess beyond permissible limits As per CPWD norms
Less use beyond the permissible limit As per CPWD norms

BANK GUARANTEE BOND I.I.T.J BANK GUARANTEE BOND I.I.T.J
Form of Earnest Money Deposit
Bank Guarantee Bond
WHEREAS, contractor .............. 
………………………... (Name of contractor) (hereinafter called “the
contractor”) has submitted his tender dated (date) for the work of (name of work) (hereinafter called “the 
Tender”)
KNOW ALL PEOPLE by these presents that we ...................................... …. (name of bank) having our 
registered office at 
........................................................................................ (hereinafter called “the Bank”) are
bound unto ..................................................................................................... ................................................... 
(Name and division of Engineer) (hereinafter called “the Engineer-in-Charge”) in the sum of Rs. 
......................... (Rs. In words .................................................) for which payment well and truly to be made to 
the said Engineer-in-Charge the Bank binds itself, his successors and assigns by these presents. 
 
SEALED with the Common Seal of the said Bank this .................day of ................. 20........THE CONDITIONS 
of this obligation are: 
 
(1) 
If after tender opening the Contractor withdraws, his tender during the period of validity of tender 
(including extended validity of tender) specified in the Form of Tender;
(2) 
If the contractor having been notified of the acceptance of his tender by the Engineer-in-Charge:
(a) 
fails or refuses to execute the Form of Agreement in accordance with the Instructions to 
contractor, if required;
OR
(b) 
fails or refuses to furnish the Performance Guarantee, in accordance with the provisions of 
tender document and Instructions to contractor,
OR
(c) 
fails or refuses to start the work, in accordance with the provisions of the contract and 
Instructions to contractor,
OR
(d) 
fails or refuses to submit fresh Bank Guarantee of an equal amount of this Bank Guarantee, 
against Security Deposit after award of contract.
We undertake to pay to the Engineer-in-Charge either up to the above amount or part thereof upon receipt 
of his first written demand, without the Engineer-in-Charge having to substantiates his demand, provided 
that in his demand the Engineer-in-Charge will note that the amount claimed by his is due to him owing to 
the occurrence of one or any of the above conditions, specifying the occurred condition or conditions.
This Guarantee will remain in force up to and including the date* ............. after the deadline for submission 
of tender as such deadline is stated in the Instructions to contractor or as it may be extended by the 
Engineer-in-Charge, notice of which extension(s) to the Bank is hereby waived. Any demand in respect of 
this Guarantee should reach the Bank not later than the above date.
DATE .............
SIGNATURE OF THE BANK
WITNESS ................ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SEAL
(SIGNATURE, NAME AND ADDRESS)
*Date to be worked out on the basis of validity period of 6 months from last date of receipt of tender.

TERMS AND CODITIONS OF CONTRACT
1. 
 Agency/ Firm shall abide by all laws of the land including, labour laws, Companies Act, Tax 
deduction liabilities, welfare measures of its employees and all other statutory obligations that enjoin 
in such cases and are not enumerated and defined herein, through any such onus shall be the 
exclusive responsibility of the Agency/ Firm, and it shall not involve the Institute in any way 
whatsoever.
2. 
The Financial Bid must be submitted in BOQ/Price Bid only.
3. 
Institute reserves the right to require the Agency/ Firm to remove any person deployed by the 
company, without assigning any reasons/notice. This will be without prejudice to the right of the 
Agency/ Firm to remove any of his own employees deployed in the Institute.
4. 
It would be responsibility of Agency/Firm to arrange all permission/ approvals from all local 
bodies/statutory bodies & nothing extra shall be paid on account of this by the Institute.
5. 
The Agency/ Firm shall be responsible for all injury and accident to persons employed by him while 
on duty. It is desirable that all employees are covered under an insurance cover.
6. 
All employees of the Agency/Firm shall be issued Identity Cards bearing their photographs. 
Photographs for identity cards shall be provided by the Agency/ Firm at their own cost. The ID 
Cards will be issued by the Agency/ Firm. These will be countersigned by the IIT Jodhpur Security 
Officer/ Engineer of Office of Infrastructure Engineering.
7. 
The Agency/Firm shall be responsible for the good conduct and behavior of its employees. If any 
employee of the Agency/ Firm is found misbehaving with the supervisory staff or other staff 
members of the Institute the Agency/ Firm shall terminate the services of such employees forthwith 
at their own risk and responsibility. The Agency/ Firm shall issue necessary Instructions to its 
employees to act upon the instructions given by the supervisory staff of the Institute.
8. 
When a register gets completed, it will be handed over to the concerned J.E. / A.E. It will not be 
returned to the contractor and the same will remain the property of the department.
9. 
The Agency/Firm shall obtain all other necessary approvals from statutory bodies as per applicable 
law in vogue.
10. 
The dismantled material which has scrap valve needs to be handed over to Institute.
11. 
In the event of any loss being occurred to the Institute during the course of execution of work, on 
account of the negligence of duty by the Agency/ Firm’ and their employees, the Agency/ Firm 
shall make good the loss sustained to the Institute either by replacement or on payment of the 
adequate compensation as per decision of Engineer-in-charge.
12. 
The Agency/ Firm shall not appoint sub-Agency/Firm to carry out any obligation under the 
contract.
13. 
The Agency/ Firm will take day-to-day instructions from the supervisory staff of the institute and 
shall maintain diary for the same.
14. 
The labours engaged by agency shall not be below age 18 years and no worker will be allowed to 
stay in the Institute campus.
15. 
The Agency/Firm shall maintain an Inspection Book as prescribed, which will be made available to 
supervisory staff of the Institute. Fault/observation record there on shall be attended to 
immediately.
16. 
Agency/ Firms will apply to the Labour Commissioner for obtaining a Labour License as applicable 
and nothing extra shall be paid to Agency by IIT Jodhpur. Agency/ Firms will submit a copy of 
license to officer-in-charge of IIT Jodhpur.
17. 
The Agency/ Firm would sign and give an undertaking as per Performa every month for 
compliance of the provision of Contract Labour Act. Rule and other Law as applicable.
18. 
Any dispute arising out of and in relation to this agreement shall be referred to the arbitration by 
sole arbitrator to be appointed by Director of the Institute. The arbitration would be conducted and 
governed by and under the provisions of Arbitration Act, 1996. Any legal dispute will be subject to

jurisdiction of Jodhpur Courts only and no other court shall have the jurisdiction refer IITJ/CPWD 
GCC form 7/8 in regard.
19. 
IIT Jodhpur is a ‘No SMOKING ZONE’ The Agency/ Firm should ensure that his employees DO 
NOT SMOKE while working in the IIT Campus. They will also not indulge in drinking alcohol or 
any other intoxicants. They will not consume drugs and eat pan/ Khaini / tobacco etc. they will not 
play cards or indulge in gambling on campus.
20. 
The Agency/ Firm shall keep himself fully informed of all acts and laws of the Central and State 
Government, all orders, decrees of statutory bodies, tribunals having any jurisdiction or authority, 
which in any manner may affect their engaged or employed and anything related to carry out the 
work. All the rules & regulations & byelaws lay down by the local bodies and any other statutory 
bodies shall be adhered to, by the Agency/ Firm, during the execution of work.
21. 
Agency/ Firm must employ adult and skilled personnel only. Employment of child labour shall lead 
to the termination of the contract at the risk and cost of the Agency/ Firm. Agency/ Firm shall 
deploy/ engage reliable persons at client after proper character and police verification and impose 
any conditions as per prevailing contractual labour laws for such engagements, take disciplinary 
action or reward any person at work etc., at its sole costs, risks and responsibilities.
22. 
Agency/ Firm shall deal with and settle the matters related with unions and shall make sure that no 
labour disputes / problems are referred to Client. It shall totally indemnify Client in this regard.
23. 
Agency/ Firm should at all times indemnify Client against all claims, damages or compensation 
under the provisions of payment of wages Act, 1936; Minimum Wages Act, 1948; Employer’s 
Liability Act, 1938 ; the workmen compensation Act, 1932 ; Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ; Maternity 
Benefit Act, 1961 ; or any modification thereof or any other law relating thereto and rules made 
hereunder from time. Client will not own any responsibility in this regard.
24. 
Tenderer should not have conflict of interest. The tenderer found to have conflict interest shall be 
disqualified.
25. 
Joint ventures are not allowed.
26. 
All statutory & mandatory deductions as per Government of India & Rajasthan State Government 
norms shall be deducted from each running bill & final bill of agency/ firm.
27. 
GST shall be applicable in this contract. NIT and the rules of Govt. of India of as notified from time 
to time shall be followed in items of GST. Presently, 18% GST has been considered in this tender and 
agency has to quote the rates inclusive of GST.
28. 
No escalation clause i.e, clause 10CC of IITJ/CPWD GCC form 7/8 is applicable in this NIT/ 
Contract.
29. 
Security deposit @2.5% will be deducted for entire gross work done including extension period if 
any, from each installment however, earnest money deposit will be adjusted to security deposit.
30. 
1% (one percent) cess towards labour welfare fund or as applicable, income tax as applicable and other 
taxes/ statutory recoveries as applicable will be deducted from the bill of contractor.
31. 
Non-Judicial stamp paper worth Rs. 10/- (Ten Rupees only) will be submitted by contractor for 
execution of agreement between both the parties.
32. 
No T & P would be supplied by the Institute and contractor will have to make his own arrangement.
33. 
The contractors are advised to get acquainted with the proposed work including specifications & its 
site and additional conditions carefully before quoting. No claim of any sort shall be entertained or 
account of any site conditions and ignorance of specifications & additional conditions. The work shall 
be carried out as per the availability of site.
34. 
The work shall be carried out as per CPWD specifications for civil and electrical work with up – to 
date correction slips unless otherwise specified in the nomenclature of individual item or in the 
specification, additional conditions where specifications are silent, the decision of Engineer-in-Charge 
shall be final and binding on contractor.
35. 
The rates quoted by the contractor shall be taken as net and nothing extra shall be paid on any account 
i.e Royalty, Cartage, GST & stacking of material required at places etc. The rates for different items of 
work shall apply for Heights & Depths, Leads & Lifts unless otherwise specified in the agreement or 
specifications applicable in the agreement.

36. 
The agency shall execute the material/items as per list of approved makes given in tender document.
37. 
The sample of material required in the work brought at site shall be got approved from Engineer –in-
Charge before use in execution of work.
38. 
All the required materials shall be got checked & approved by the Engineer-in-charge on receipt of 
the same at site before use and rejected material is to be removed from the site immediately.
39. 
The sample of material required for Testing shall be provided at free of cost by the contractor. Testing 
charges if any shall be borne by the IIT Jodhpur if satisfactory report and if test results are 
unsatisfactory than testing charges shall be deducted from bills of contractor. All other expenditure to 
be incurred for taking sample, conveyance, packing etc. shall be borne by the contractor.
40. 
The contractor shall submit a detailed program of work within 7 days of the date of award of work. 
The Engineer – in- Charge can modify the program and the contractors have to work accordingly.
41. 
The contractor shall make his own arrangement for getting the permission with respect to trucks from 
the Traffic Police.
42. 
No payment shall be made to contractor for any damage caused by the rain or any other natural 
causes what so ever during the execution of work.
43. 
Some restrictions may be imposed by the security staff of IIT Jodhpur etc. on the working and on 
movement of labour & material. No labour camp/ huts shall be allowed in IIT Jodhpur. The 
contractor shall make his own arrangement for labour huts outside the campus. However, 
constructions of cement godown and Chowkidar’s hut in the Campus shall be permitted. The 
contractor shall be bound to follow all such restrictions/ instructions and nothing shall be payable on 
this account.
44. 
The contractor shall be fully responsible for the safe custody of the material issued or brought at site 
by him for doing the work.
45. 
The Malba / Garbage generated at site due to construction activities shall be removed from the site 
immediately & shall be disposed off by the contractor to the approved dumping site of Jodhpur 
Municipal Corporation and all statutory approvals from local bodies shall be a sole responsibility of 
contractor.
46. 
The contractor shall clean the site thoroughly of scaffolding materials, rubbish, equipment’s left out of 
his work & dress the site around the building to the complete satisfaction of the Engineer-in-Charge 
before the work is treated as completed.
47. 
Water charges @ 1% and Electricity charges @ 0.5 % of gross work done shall be deducted from bills of 
contractor if electricity and water provided by IIT Jodhpur for this work.
48. 
Agency has to take proper safety measures during the execution of work.
49. 
IITJ/CPWD GCC form 7/8 shall form part of NIT and the bidder shall go through GCC before 
quoting rates and the same shall be deemed to be accepted by bidder if he participates in the tender.
50. 
ESI & EPF shall be reimbursed as per norms on production of original receipt of ESI & EPF from 
contractor specific to this work.
51. 
The contractor shall submit the program of execution of work as per clause 5 of IITJ/CPWD GCC form 
7/8 of NIT including list of workers to be deployed by contractor for this work.
52. 
All the statutory obligations which is not covered in the bid document shall be reimbursed on actual 
basis after submission of proof of payment.
53. 
The rates for different items of work shall apply for all Heights & Depths, Leads & Lifts unless 
otherwise specified in the agreement or specifications applicable in the agreement. The Agency/ 
Firm must visit site (internal or external) area before quoting rates.
54. 
Final payment shall be released only after satisfactory completion of work.
55. 
Failure to comply any of the above clauses or due to unsatisfactory performance as observed by 
Engineer-in-charge, the contract shall be terminated at any stage without assigning any reason 
thereof.

Additional Terms and Condition for Electrical works-
1. 
The order of preference in case of any discrepancy as indicated in condition no. 1 under “Terms and 
Conditions of contract” given in the Standard CPWD Contract form may be read as the following:
a. 
Nomenclature of item as per Schedule of Quantities/ BoQ.
b. 
Additional specifications, particular specifications and special conditions for Electrical 
Works.
c. 
General conditions.
d. 
Contract Clauses of General conditions of contract for CPWD 2023.
e. 
CPWD specifications for electrical works 2023 part- I or as applicable.
f. 
Architectural/structural drawings and specifications mentioned in drawings.
g. 
Indian standard specifications of BIS.
h. 
Sound engineering practice as per directions of the Engineer-in-charge.
2. 
A reference made to any Indian Standard Specifications in these documents, shall imply reference to 
the latest version of that standard, including such revisions/amendments as issued by the Bureau of 
Indian Standards upto last date of receipt of tenders. The contractor shall keep at his own cost all 
such publications of relevant Indian Standards applicable to the work at site.
3. 
The main contractor shall engage eligible contractor for electrical work. The main contractor shall 
not indulge in procurement of electrical items and getting the work done on labour contract with the 
electrical contractor. The whole electrical component shall be executed by the eligible electrical 
contractor on a turnkey basis i.e. procurement of material & engaging labour. The associate electrical 
contractor shall submit the completion certificate of electrical work executed by him along with 
necessary test reports, completion plan etc.
4. 
The contractor shall take all safety precautions to avoid accidents by exhibiting caution boards, red 
flags, red lights and by providing necessary barriers and all other measures required from time to 
time. The contractor shall be responsible for all damages and accidents due to negligence on his part.
5. 
The contractor shall give due notices to Municipality, Police and/or other authorities that may be 
required under the law/rules under force and obtain all requisite permissions/licenses for 
temporary obstructions/enclosures and pay all charges which may be leviable on account of his 
execution of the work under the agreement. Nothing extra shall be payable on this account.
6. 
The contractor shall leave such recesses, holes, openings, etc., as may be required for the electric, air-
conditioning and other related works. (For this purpose any required inserts, sleeves, brackets, 
conduits, base plates, insert plates, clamps etc. shall be arranged by the contractor and fix the same at 
the time of casting of concrete, stone work & brick work, if required, and nothing extra shall be 
payable on this account.
7. 
The contractor shall give a trial run of the equipment’s and machinery for establishing its capability 
to achieve the specifications within laid down tolerances to the satisfaction of the Engineer-in-charge 
before commencement of work.
8. 
The work will be carried out in close coordination with the building work and other agencies. 
Conduits will be laid in the slab within the specified time and it will have to be ensured that the 
casting of slabs is not delayed for want of laying of conduits. The conduits will also be laid in walls 
before the Plaster work is undertaken so as to avoid breaking cutting of plaster while making chase 
for laying of conduits subsequently. The contractor will have to employ adequate labour for carrying 
out the work. No claim regarding the idle labour for any reason will be entertained by the 
Department.
9. 
All tools, plant and machinery provided by the contractor shall, when brought at the site, be deemed 
to be exclusively intended for the construction and completion of this work and the contractor shall 
not remove the same or any part thereof (save for the purpose of moving it from one part of the site 
to another) without the consent of the Engineer-in-charge.

10. No foreign exchange shall be made available by the department for the purchase of equipment,
plants, machinery, materials of any kind or any other items required to be carried out in execution of 
work.
11. The contractor shall carry out his work, so as not to interfere with or hinder the progress or
completion of the work being performed by other contractor (s) or by the Engineer-in-charge and 
shall as far as possible arrange his work and shall place and dispose off the materials being used or 
removed, so as not to interfere with the operations of other contractors, or he shall arrange his work 
with that of the others in an acceptable and coordinated manner and shall perform it in proper 
sequence to the entire satisfaction of Engineer-in-charge.
12. All items, which are not covered while carrying out electrical work shall be removed and cleared by
the contractors as soon as the work is completed.
13. The contractor shall give the Engineer-in-charge in every fortnight, a progress report of the work
done during the previous fortnight. The progress of work will be reviewed periodically by the 
Engineer-in-charge with the contractor and shortfalls, if any, sorted out. The contractor shall 
thereupon take such action as may be necessary to bring back his work to schedule without any 
additional cost to the department.
14. It shall be responsibility of the main contractor to sort out any dispute involved with the associated
contractor without any time and cost overrun to the department. The main contractor shall be solely 
responsible for settling the dispute/litigation arising out of his agreement with the associate 
contractor. The contractor shall ensure that the work shall not suffer on this account.
15. The main contractor shall be responsible for coordinating the activities of all works and essential
progress of works as per milestone and laid down program.
16. The contractor shall be responsible for the watch and ward of the site/property/material provided
by him and materials issued by the department against pilferage and breakage during the period of 
execution and thereafter till the work is completed and physically handed over to the department.
17. The contractor shall ensure quality construction in a planned and time bound manner. Any sub-
standard material or work beyond set out tolerance limits shall be summarily rejected by the 
Engineer-in-charge.
18. The contractor shall be required to make a sample of required job for each type at the earliest
opportunity using all approved materials for approval of Engineer in charge before mass scale 
finishing works are taken up.
19. Even ISI marked materials shall be subjected to quality test at the discretion of the Engineer-in-
charge besides testing of other materials as per the specifications described for the item/material. 
Whenever ISI marked materials are brought to the site of work; the contractor shall, if required by 
the Engineer-in-charge, furnish manufacturers test certificates to establish that the materials 
procured by the contractor for incorporation in the work satisfy the provisions of IS codes relevant to 
the material and/or the work done.
20. The contractor shall have to engage well experienced skilled labour and deploy modern T&P and
other equipments to execute the work.
21. The firm shall use only electrically operated chase cutting machine for cutting the chases in the wall
for recessed conduit wiring.
22. The contractor will have to make his own arrangement for storage of materials. No storage space
shall be provided by department.
23. The contractor will have to make his own arrangement for water and power supply for execution of
24. The contractor will have to ensure that the skilled labour i.e. wireman etc., engaged in the execution
of the work must possess valid electrical license, otherwise he will not be permitted to execute the 
work.
25. The associate contractors executing the electrical works must possess the valid electrical contractor
license otherwise they will not be permitted to execute the electrical works.
26. Priority to arrange the material shall be decided by the department. However, material required for
the work shall be brought at site only at the appropriate time keeping in view the progress of

building works as well as Electrical & Mechanical works. Decision of Engineer-in -charge in this 
regard shall be final.
27. The contractor has to intimate his authorized representative, who will be receiving instructions in his
absence. The contractor /his authorized representative is bound to sign the site order book as and 
when required by the Engineer-in-charge and to comply with the instructions therein.
28. Suitable back plates providing for fixing the wall brackets and ceiling flush fittings shall be supplied
by the contractor free of cost.
29. It shall be responsibility of contractor to provide polythene/PVC plastic cover for all SDBs/meter
boards/feeder pillars/panels etc. so as to protect them from wear & tear/damage during execution 
stage. Contractor shall provide the covers for the materials if any being supplied departmentally 
also. Nothing extra shall be paid on this account.
30. Contractor is fully responsible for any kind of damage to the LT/HT cable during execution of work.
No joints shall be allowed if the cable is damaged. Contractor has to replace the full length at his 
own cost.
31. The MCB should be of same make as that of MCB DBs. 
32. Colour coding shall have to be adopted in the wiring system as per specification. 
33. Tinned copper earthing lugs/Thimbles/ferrules shall be provided for termination of earth wire to all
Metallic outlet boxes/fittings/fixtures/fan regulator/MCB DB/switch board/Meter board etc., 
properly crimped/brazed/soldered for which nothing extra shall be paid.
34. Suitable crimping tools shall be used for crimping the lugs/thimbles/ferrules. Nothing extra shall be
paid on this account. The lugs/thimbles/ferrules pressed by conventional/ordinary pliers shall not 
be accepted.
35. A suitable brass/tinned copper neutral link shall be fixed at suitable place in the metallic outlet
boxes of all sizes to terminate neutral wire properly. Nothing extra shall be paid on this account.
36. An earth termination with earth stud of brass/tinned copper i/c 2 no. metallic washers or suitable
earth bar of Brass/tinned copper with tinned copper thimbles/ferrules/lugs should be suitably 
fixed at suitable place in the Metallic outlet box for termination of protective earth conductor. 
Nothing extra shall be paid on this account.
37. In the outlet boxes, phase from one switch to other switch shall be looped with suitable size of solid
copper conductor. Nothing extra shall be paid on this account. Stranded conductor shall not be 
accepted.
38. Only required number of knockouts should be removed from Metallic outlet boxes for entry of
conduits. If more than required number of knockouts are removed, the Metallic outlet box shall not 
be accepted.
39. Separate G.I. boxes shall be used for staircase light switches and bell push. Nothing extra shall be
paid on this account.
40. Metal sheath of Co-axial T.V. cable shall be terminated using 'U' shape thimble/lugs/ferrules.
Nothing extra shall be paid on this account.
41. To facilitate drawing of wires 16/18 SWG GI fish wire be provided along with laying of recessed
conduit. Nothing extra shall be paid on this account.
42. Cable connection to switch gear is deemed to be included in the item of end termination. No extra
payment shall be made for that.
43. The vendor shall have to procured the UPS from OEM or their authorized dealer and also required
to submit all the relevant document from OEM during supply of UPS.

TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR INTERNAL EI WORKS
1. 
All hardware items such as screws, thimbles, connectors, earth/neutral terminals, wires etc. which 
are essentially required for completing any item as per specifications will be deemed to have been 
included in the item even when the same have not been specifically mentioned.
2. 
All hardware material such as nuts/bolts/screws/washers etc. to be used in the work shall be 
zinc/cadmium plated iron. The galvanized boxes of modular switch/sockets etc. shall be of the 
same make as of switch/socket etc.
3. 
While laying conduit, suitable minimum number of junction boxes shall be left for pulling the wires. 
These shall be placed in such a way that the same do not remain noticeable.
4. 
Multi stranded FRLS PVC insulated copper conductor’s wires are to be used in the work. 
Termination of multi-stranded conductors shall be done using crimping type copper thimbles at 
both the ends. Nothing extra shall be paid for the same.
5. 
The contractor shall follow the shortest route for circuits, submain, point wiring etc.
6. 
The connections of switches, sensors, earthing conductors & interconnections cables shall be made 
by adequate rating thimbles of approved standard makes only and nothing extra on this account 
shall be paid.
7. 
Check nuts shall be provided while terminating the M.S. conduits in switch board boxes for which 
nothing extra shall be paid.
8. 
All distribution boards shall be marked with circuits controlling the rooms/area/SDB controlled
9. 
Material to be used in the work shall be ISI marked. The makes of materials have been indicated in 
the list of acceptable makes. No other make will be acceptable. The materials to be used in the work 
shall be got approved from the Engineer-in-charge before its use at site. The Engineer-in-charge shall 
reserve the right to instruct the contractor to remove the material which, in his opinion, is not as per 
specifications
10. While deciding the size of switch boxes for light points/fan point, exhaust fan point items, extra two
modules will be provided for each fan point for fixing of regulator(s) (fan regulator is to be provided 
under different item). Wherever extra modules are available, the same shall be provided with 
blanking plates without any extra cost.
11. Modular type switches/sockets/telephone outlets/TV sockets are to be provided wherever
indicated in the items. The same shall be of only one make. The modular plates of switches, sockets, 
telephone & TV sockets etc. shall be in two parts i.e. plates with frames with in quoted rates.
12. The building shall be provided with false ceiling in various areas. In order to avoid maintenance
problem, the contractor will not provide any ceiling rose/connector/looping box etc. above the false 
ceiling. The point wiring in that case will be extended up to the fitting/fan etc. directly without 
provisions of any termination arrangement in between. The wire from the end point up to the fixture 
shall be considered to be included in the point wiring. Nothing extra shall be paid for the same.
13. Wherever it is not possible to provide rigid conduits, flexible conduit pipe shall be provided for
drawing/running the wires. However, such arrangement has to be kept to the barest minimum and 
only with the prior approval of Engineer-in-charge.
14. Earthing and all hidden items of work shall be carried out in the presence of the Engineer-in-charge
or his authorized representative.
15. The fan box cover shall be made from 3mm thick phenolic laminated sheet as per CPWD
16. The contractor shall provide only metallic junction boxes/looping boxes with cover of required sizes
even in PVC conduiting and such boxes shall be measured as a part of conduit/wiring without any 
extra payment.
17. The metallic junction boxes & looping boxes shall be covered with approved makes of phenolic
laminated sheet. For telephone, television & fire alarm system shall be provided at all the floors with 
in scope of work without any extra cost as per requirement & layout approved by Engineer-in-
charge.

18. The firm has to go through the site order book kept with the Junior Engineer(E) regularly and has to
sign the same and carryout the instructions recorded therein by various officers of the department.
19. The quantities of various items may vary from the quantities given in schedule of work. The agency
shall bring the various items & materials as per actual requirement at site at the time of execution of 
work. Excess quantities shall not be accepted & paid by the department.
20. The ceiling roses wherever required to be provided are included in the scope of work without extra
payment and the same shall also be of modular type & of the same make as that of switches & 
sockets along with earthing provision.
21. MCCB should have centrally adjustable overload setting 80% to 100% & short circuit setting
adjustable from 500% to 1000% of nominal current for thermal type & overload setting 40% to 100% 
& short circuit setting adjustable from 150% to 1000% of nominal current for microprocessor type 
MCCB. All MCCB should be ICS=ICU.

S.
No. Material Approved makes
1 LT panels / boards, Feeder
panels. MILESTONE, TRICOLITE, ADLEC, ADVANCE PANEL
& SWITCHGEAR Ltd., PRISTINE, STERLING
GENERATOR, APPLICATION CONTROL PANEL.
2 MCCBS SIEMENS (BETA GUARD), L&T(AU), SCHNEIDER
(ACTI 9), LEGRAND (DX 3), HAGER
3 MCB, ELCB, RCCB, DB and
RCBO. Distribution board shall be
of the same make of MCB, ELCB,
RCCB, DB and RCBO. SIEMENS (BETA GUARD), L&T(AU), SCHNEIDER
(ACTI 9), LEGRAND (DX 3), HAGER
4 LT cables, 1.1 KV grade UNISTAR, NATIONAL, RALLISON, KEI, HAVELLS
POLYCAB, RR KABEL
5 FRLS copper wires and cables, 1.1
KV grade UNISTAR, NATIONAL, RALLISON, KEI, HAVELLS,
POLYCAB, RR KABEL
6 Switch Socket accessories. LEGRAND (ARTEOR), SCHNEIDER (ZENCELO), MK
(ELEMENTS), HAGER (INSYSTA), CRABTREE
(MURANO)
7 Lugs and Ferrules DOWELLS, JAINSON
8 Brass Compression Gland (Heavy
duty) COMMEX, GRIPWELL, HENSEL
9 Wall Fan Havells (Plantina), Crompton (Hiflo wave plus), Bajaj
(Esteem), USHA (Max Air), Orient (Wall 47), Almonard.
10 Cable Lugs & Thimbles DOWELL, ASIAN, ACTION
11 Telephone Tag Blocks with boxes KRONE, POUYET
12 PVC Conduits and Accessories
(ISI Marked, Heavy duty) BEC, PRECISION, POLY-PACK, POLYCAB,
13 MS Conduit and Pipes BEC, AKG, M-KAY, STEEL CRAFT
14 MS Conduit Accessories (Heavy
duty) BEC, AKG, M-KAY, STEEL CRAFT.
15 Pipes and Accessories (ISI) TATA, JINDAL, SAIL
16 Street /landscape & LED Light
Fixtures PHILIPS, CROMPTON, WIPRO, BAJAJ, SCHREDER,
JAQUAR LIGHTING
17 LED Chip for Street /landscape
and LED Light Fixtures PHILIPS, CROMPTON, WIPRO, BAJAJ,
18 EXIT and Emergency Lights PHILIPS, CROMPTON, WIPRO, BAJAJ, PROLITE
19 CAT-6A CABLE Tyco, Commscope, R&M, Molex, Panduit, Schneider
(Actassi), LEGRAND
21 LED LIGHT FIXTURE PHILIPS, CROMPTON, WIPRO, BAJAJ, SCHREDER,
JAQUAR LIGHTING
22 Selector Switch RISHAB – L&T, KAYCEE, SIEMENS, C&S,ABB
25 Photo Chromatic Switch BAJAJ, WIPRO, PHILIPS
26 Annunciation Panel CROMPTON, AREVA, SIEMENS, KIRLOSKAR
27 Terminal Blocks BCH, INDUSTRIAL CONTROL, JAINSON
28 Change Over Switch L&T, SOCOMEC, SIEMENS, HAGER,ABB
29 Bus bar JINDAL, INDALCO, CENTURY
30 GI pipes JINDAL, TATA, SAIL
31 Timers & Contactors to be
mounted in DB’s L&T, SIEMENS, SCHNEIDER, HAGER, LEGRAND
LIST OF APPROVED MATERIALS (Electrical):

32 MV Contactors/Timer/ Starters L&T, SIEMENS, SCHNEIDER, LEGRAND,ABB
33 Protective Relays AREVA, SIEMENS, L&T
34 kWh Meters (Electronic Digital
type) /Multifunction Meter
/Ammeter/ Voltmeter) SCHNEIDER(CONZERV), C&S, L&T,SIEMENS,
NEPTUNE, ABB
35 Indication Lamps/Push Button L&T, BCH, GE
36 Ceiling/Exhaust/Wall Fans CROMPTON GREAVES, ORIENT, HAVELLS
37 Cable Tray MEM, PROFAB, RICO, INDIATECH,
RMCON,LEGRAND
38 Raceway LEGRAND, MK, SCHNEIDER
39 Polycarbonate Junction Boxes HENSEL, CLIPSAL, MENEKKES
40 Fasteners HILTI, FISCHER, BOSCH, WUNH
41 TV Cable FINOLEX, HAVELLS, BELDON
42 Metal MCB’s enclosure LEGRAND, HAVELLS, HAGER, INDOASIAN,
43 Chemical Earthing JEF ECOSAFE, ERICO, TEREC PLUS
44 DWC Pipe TIRUPATI, GEMINI, REX ,TRICOLITE
45 UPS SCHNEIDER, VERTIV, SOCOMEC, NUMERIC, ABB,
MITSUIBSHI
46 Sealed Maintenance free Batteries EXIDE, QUANTA AMARON, INNER ROCKET,
PANASONIC.
47 Street Light GRP Poles SCHREDER, PHILIPS, BAJAJ, CREATIVE COMPOSITE,
AERON COMPOSITE
48 PU paints on street light GRP
poles AZKO NOBEL, ASIAN
Note: Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to add or delete any material and brands in the 
list of preferred material/brands on the recommendation of Engineer-In –charge.

S. Item Description Qty. Unit Rate Total
1 Supplying and drawing following sizes of
2 Wiring for circuit/ submain wiring alongwith
2.1 2 x 4 sq. mm + 1 x 4 sq. mm earth wire 1950.00 Metre. 334.00 651300.00
2.2 4 x 10 sq. mm + 02 x 6 sq. mm earth wire 300.00 Metre. 1005.00 301500.00
3 Supplying and fixing of following sizes of
4 Supplying and fixing following way,
4.1 6 way (4 + 18), Double door 12.00 Each 4974.00 59688.00
5 Supplying and fixing 5 A to 32 A rating,
5.1 Single pole 144.00 Each 256.00 36864.00
6 Supplying and fixing single pole blanking 72.00 Each 13.00 936.00
7 Online UPS- Input supply: Three Phase,
Output supply: Three Phase Online UPS- Input supply: Three Phase,

7.1 10KVA (Each Power module shall be < 10 12.00 Each 208893.00 2506716.00
8 Supplying and fixing of following modules
8.1 TPN MCB enclosure. 24.00 Each 749.00 17976.00
9 Supplying and fixing 63 A rating, 415 V, 10 kA,
9.1 Triple pole and neutral 36.00 Each 2663.00 95868.00
Total 4492373.00
Total NDSR Items Rs. 113844.00
Total DSR (E&M) 2025 V-II item Rs. 2506716.00
Total DSR (E&M) 2022 item Rs. 1871813.00

Add GST difference @6.33% on DSR Items (on C) Rs. 118485.76
Less 2.70% (for 0.973 correction factor) on DSR items (on C+D) Rs. -53738.07
Total amount (inclusive of all taxes.) 45,57,121.00

NUMBER
# TEXT # NUMBER
# TEXT
# NUMBER NUMBER # TEXT #
Sl.
No. Item
Description Quantity Units Estimated
Rate
in
Rs. P TOTAL
AMOUNT With
Taxes in
Rs. P TOTAL AMOUNT
In Words
1 SITC of 1.000 Nos 45,57,121.00 45,57,121.00 INR Forty Five
Lakh Fifty Seven
Thousand One
Hundred & Twenty
One Only
Total in Figures 45,57,121.00 INR Forty Five
Lakh Fifty Seven
Thousand One
Hundred & Twenty
One Only
Quoted Rate in Figures Select 0.00 INR Zero Only
Quoted Rate in Words INR Zero Only