SOURCE_PDF: 083676ed09de_National-Scholarship-for-Higher-Education-of-ST-students-638766146772781079.pdf

GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
MINISTRY OF TRIBAL AFFAIRS
GUIDELINES
NATIONAL FELLOWSHIP & SCHOLARSHIP FOR HIGHER EDUCATION
OF
SCHEDULED TRIBE STUDENTS
[CENTRAL SECTOR SCHEME]
2021-22 to 2025-26

Sl.no Particulars Page no
Introduction 4
1 Objective 4
2 Salient features of the scheme 4
2.1 Eligibility and Course Duration 5
2.2 Income Criteria 5
2.3 Age limit 5
2.4 Universities/Institutions covered under the scheme 5
2.5 Number of Fellowship 5
2.6 Value of Fellowship 7
3 Selection Process 8
3.1 On-line Application through Portal 8
3.2 Registration process 8
3.3 Documents required for filling application form 9
3.4 Verification Process by University/Institute 9
3.5 Selection Procedure for fellowship [MPhil/Ph.D] 10
3.6 Selection Committee for MPhil/PhD 10
3.7 Publishing of Merit list 10
3.8 Completion of formalities by scholar and Institute
(Ph.D/M.Phil) 10
4 Release of Fellowship 12
4.1 Release through PFMS system 12
4.2 Procedure for release and continuation of fellowship 12
4.3 Procedure at the time of completion of course 13
5 Other Issues 13
5.1 Procedure to change the University 13
5.2 Procedure to change the subject/course 13
5.3 Discontinuation of the course 13
CONTENTS

5.4 Tenure of Fellowship 13
5.5 Leave benefit for fellowship (as applicable to UGC
research scholars) 14
6 Cancellation of Award 15
7 Grievance Module 15
8 Applicability of Guidelines 15
9 Change in the provisions of the scheme 15
Sl. No. Particulars Page No.
1 Objective 17
2 Salient Features of the Scheme 17
2.1 Eligibility and course duration 17
2.2 Income Criteria 17
2.3 Universities/Institutions covered under the scheme 18
2.4 Slots of Scholarship 18
2.5 Value of Scholarship 19
3 Selection Process 19
3.1 Online Application through Portal 19
3.2 Registration Process 19
3.3 Documents Required 20
3.4 Verification Process by University/Institute 20
3.4.1 Verification Process by the Ministry 21
3.5 Publishing of the selection list 21
4 Release of payment 21
4.1 Payment process 22
4.2 Utilization Certificate from the Institute 22
4.3 Updation of Expenditure at PFMS 22
5 Others 23
5.1 Updation of the completion of course at Ministry’s portal 23
5.2 Grievance Module 23
6 Applicability of Guidelines 23
7 Change in the provisions of the scheme 23

Introduction
i. 
It is a Central Sector Scheme, fully funded by Ministry of Tribal Affairs to grant 
scholarship to meritorious ST students for pursuing higher education in India.
ii. 
This scheme has two sub-schemes. The first sub-scheme is National 
Fellowship Scheme for pursuing M.Phil or Ph.D after completion of Master 
degree. The second sub-scheme is National Scholarship Scheme, for 
pursuing Graduate/Post Graduate courses in the selected topclass 
Government and Non-Government Institutes in professional fields such as 
Management, Medicine, Engineering, Information Technology, Law etc.
iii. 
The above mentioned two sub schemes are continuing schemes and were 
merged into one scheme in the financial year 2017-18
PART –A (National Fellowship Scheme)
1. Objective 
 
The 
objective 
of 
the 
scheme 
is to 
provide 
financial 
assistance 
to
meritorious Scheduled Tribe students to enable them to pursue higher education 
after completing post-graduate degree.
2. Salient Features of the Scheme
Fellowship under the Scheme will be for pursuing MPhil, Ph.D by those ST students 
who have passed the Post-graduation/Master Degree examination. 
 
Note: - In case, under the national education policy, there is any change in the type 
of course, the same will be incorporated in the guidelines. However, the scholars 
already covered under the scheme prior to 2021-22, will be allowed to complete the 
course as per the existing scheme.

Course Duration Eligibility
M. Phil 2 years or date of submission of
dissertation, whichever is earlier Post-Graduation and should have
taken admission in the universities
covered under the category, as
mentioned at 2.4 below.
(ii). The candidates should have
minimum 55% marks at the final
examination/grading at PG level.
M. Phil + Ph D 2+3 =5 years or date of submission
of dissertation, whichever is earlier
Ph. D 5 years or date of submission of
dissertation, whichever is earlier
2.2 Income Criteria: 
 
 There is no income criteria for eligibility in respect of this scholarship.
2.3 Age limit: 
 
 Maximum 36 years, as on first day of July of the relevant year of the award
of scholarship.
2.4 Universities/Institutions covered under the scheme
Eligible students can take admission for regular and full time M. Phil/Ph.D courses in 
the following categories of University / Academic Institutes: -
i. 
Universities/Institutes/Colleges included under section 2(f)/12(B) or 2(f) and 
12(B) of UGC Act.
ii. 
Deemed to be Universities included under Section 3 of the UGC Act, 1956 
and eligible to receive grant-in-aid from UGC.
iii. 
Universities/ Institutes/ Colleges receiving grants by Central/ State 
Government
iv. 
Institutes of National Importance, as notified by Ministry of Higher Education, 
Government of India.
2.5 Number of Fellowship
The total number of fresh fellowships for M.Phil/M.Phil +PhD/Ph.D every year will be 
750. In case of non-availability of adequate number of Scheduled Tribe applicants,

Priority Category Slots
1 Divyangjan [5% of 750] 38
2 PVTG (List at Annexure-VIII) 25
3 Female [30% of 750] 225
4 ST Others 462
Total 750
the number of fellowships not availed during that year will be carried forward to the 
next academic year. There is no State/University wise ceiling on the number of slots.
(i). In case the number of applicants exceeds the number of available slots for 
awards, selection will be made on the basis of marks obtained in post-graduation 
exam. 
 
(ii). Slots will be provided to sub-categories subject to the following priority:
Note-1:-Eligible 
students 
who 
have 
got 
offer 
of 
admission 
in
IITs/AIIMS/IIMs/IISER will be given priority and slots meant for ST-Others 
category(Sr.No.4 above) will be reduced proportionately. 
 
Note-2: -The students applying as Divyangjan should produce the Disability 
Certificate, certifying minimum 40% disability, issued by the competent 
authority designated by respective State/UT.
(iii). In case adequate number of applications is not received for the above sub-
categories, then the unfilled slots will be allotted to eligible ST research applicants 
not covered under any of the three categories mentioned above, on the basis of 
inter-se merit based on post- graduation examination. 
 
(iv). Procedure for determining slot distribution for sub category: 
 
Category 1 [Divyangjan]: 38 slots will be reserved for Divyangjan Research scholars, 
and their selection will be on the basis of merit. In case of more than 38 applications 
received in this category, top 38 applicants, in the order of merit, will be selected, 
and the remaining applications will be treated under normal ST category. However, if 
the number of applications received is less than 38, remaining vacant slots will be 
filled by the next priority category i.e PVTG. 
 
Category 2 [PVTG]: 25 slots will be reserved for PVTG applicants, and their 
selection will be on the basis of merit. In case, more than 25 applications are 
received in this category, top 25 applicants, in the order of merit, will be selected

Course Stream Scholarship Monthly Contingency
Annually
M.Phil Humanities& Social Sciences Rs.31000/- Rs.10,000/-
Science/Engineering
Technology Rs.12,000/-
Ph.D Humanities& Social Sciences Rs.31000/- for first two
years and
Rs.35000/- for
remaining 3 years Rs.20,500/-
Science/Engineering
Technology Rs.25,000/-
against the allotted slots, and the remaining applications will be treated under normal 
ST category. However, if the number of applications received is less than 25, 
remaining vacant slots will be filled by the next priority category i.e Female. 
 
Category 3 [Female]: Out of total 750, 225 slots will be reserved for female 
applicants [including Divyangjan and PVTG]. In case more than 225 applications 
[including Divyangjan and PVTG] from female candidates are received in this 
category, top 225 applicants, in the order of merit, will be selected against the 
available slots. The remaining applications will be treated under ST open category. 
In case the number of applications of female candidates is less than 225, the 
remaining vacant slots will be adjusted with ST others category. 
 
(iv). The guidelines provide that the student is eligible for scholarship for regular and 
full time M. Phil/Ph.D in the University/Academic Institute as mentioned in para 2.4. 
However, for pursuing Ph.D courses in AIIMS/IIMs/IITs/IISERs, where the pre-
requisite may be that the students should have financial security in hand before 
he/she can take admission, preference will be given to those students who have 
secured offer of admission from AIIMS/IITs/IIMs/IISERs. Therefore, the student 
should mention, in the application form, that he/she has got offer of admission and 
should also upload the offer letter issued.
2.6 Value of fellowship 
 
The applicant selected for scholarship will be entitled to the stipend as stipulated in 
the following table subject to fulfilment of conditions laid down in the scheme.

i. 
In case a student is provided hostel accommodation by the university, he/she 
would not be eligible to claim HRA, but will be eligible to draw only hostel fees 
charged by the University. The scholar will not be entitled to claim mess, 
electricity, water charges, etc. A certificate to this effect is to be furnished 
through the Registrar/Director/Principal.
ii. 
If the student makes his/her own arrangements of accommodation, he/she 
may be entitled to draw HRA as per categorization of cities by Govt. of India.
Note 1: The research scholars considered eligible for the fellowship under the 
scheme shall not be eligible for any other fellowship/scholarship of the Union or 
State Government for the same study. 
 
Note 2: Release of fellowship will be subject to fulfilment of various requirements 
stated in subsequent paras. 
 
3. Selection Process:
3.1 On-line Application through Portal 
 
The applications for research scholarship are invited through online mode once a 
year through online portal https://fellowship.tribal.gov.in developed by the Ministry. 
The date of opening and closing of portal will be given due publicity through print 
and electronic media and through Universities/Institutes. The portal will usually open 
on July 1 and close on September 30 in the academic year. These dates may 
change, depending on the prevailing circumstances, which will be notified through 
the portal of Ministry. Applicants are advised to watch the portal for opening of 
application form. Applicants are advised to go through the Instruction Manual before 
applying online on the portal, and for any query, may refer to the help desk module 
given on the portal. Incomplete applications will not be considered. Candidates have 
to apply strictly as per the instructions given in online application portal. 
 
3.2 Registration process 
 
Before filling application form online, Research scholars are required to register 
themselves on the online fellowship portal as well as on Digi Locker since it is 
mandatory to upload documents through Digi Locker, for which Aadhaar is 
mandatory as notified by the Ministry. 
 
Note 1: Notification of Ministry of Tribal Affairs under section 7 of Aadhaar Act 2016 
published in Gazette of India on 30.5.2017 and circulated to all States vide letter no. 
19012/01/2017-Edu-sch dated 9.6.2017 should be complied. The notification

provides that an individual desirous of availing the benefit of National Fellowship and 
Scholarship scheme is required to furnish proof of possession of Aadhaar number or 
undergo Aadhaar authentication. 
 
 
3.3 Documents required for filling application form 
 
Applicant will be required to upload the following documents on the portal for 
registration:
• 
Latest coloured passport size photograph
• 
ST/PVTG certificate issued by the competent authority
• 
10th /Matriculation/equivalent certificate in support of date of birth
• 
Divyangjan certificate issued by the competent authority
• 
Post-Graduation mark sheet [Aggregate marks in %] /equivalent % marks in 
case of CGPA (Conversion formula from CGPA to percentage which was 
issued by Institute/University to be produced.)
• 
Admission/Joining certificate of M.Phil/Ph.D / Integrated M.Phil+Ph.D from the 
University concerned.
• 
Offer of admission in respect of students admitted to IITs/AIIMS/IIMs/IISERs.
After filing of application, the form along with the documents will be available online 
to the concerned university/Institute for verification: 
 
3.4 Verification Process by University/Institute
• 
The portal has provision of online verification by the Universities where the 
applicant has taken admission. Nodal Officer from the University and 
verifying officer who is dealing with Scholarship is required to register on the 
online portal. The officials may go through the Instruction manual for details 
given in the portal.[https://fellowship.tribal.gov.in]
• 
Nodal Officer from University will verify physical documents of the research 
scholars uploaded by him/her on the portal. It would be the responsibility of 
the concerned University to ensure that the information uploaded by the 
research scholar is correct and is matching with the physical documents of the 
research scholars furnished at the time of verification.
• 
After receiving student details duly verified by the Institute, online verification 
of application will be done by the Ministry. In case of any discrepancies found 
in the application, Ministry will mark application as defective and the defective 
application will be visible to the student. The student is advised to make 
correction in the defective application and required to resubmit once again on

(a) Secretary (M/o TA) Chairperson
(b) Joint Secretary & Financial Adviser (M/o TA) Member
(c) Joint Secretary, Scholarship Division Member
(d) Director/Deputy Secretary, Scholarship Division,
M/oTA Member
e) Representative from Ministry of Social Justice and
Empowerment Member
f) Representative from UGC Member
the portal at Institute level. Institute will verify the corrected application and 
submit it to the Ministry through portal for final verification and submission 
before the last date.
3.5 Selection Procedure for fellowship [MPhil/Ph.D] 
 
 
A merit list will be prepared in respect of the remaining eligible research scholars 
based on the marks obtained by them in the post-graduation examination and as per 
selection criteria adopted by the selection committee. Allotment of slots in respect of 
various streams will be based on methodology adopted by the committee. 
 
3.6 Selection Committee for MPhil/PhD: 
 
Selection of the research scholars will be done by Selection committee of Ministry 
of Tribal Affairs, consisting of following members.
3.8 Completion of formalities by scholar and Institute (Ph.D/M.Phil) 
 
The provisionally selected research scholar is required to take admission in the 
university/Institute concerned and submit the joining report to the Ministry within 1

Step Formalities
I Linking of research scholar ID with designated bank Portal to be done by
University/Institute and submitted to Ministry online for approval.
II Quarterly uploading of continuation certificate in the prescribed proforma, at the
end of every quarter.
1st quarter April-June (10 July)
2nd quarter July-September (10th October)
3rd quarter October-December (10th January)
4th quarter January – March (10th of April)
III Marking for monthly HRA entitlement of the scholar by the university after
approval of continuation by the Ministry, as uploaded by the University in step II
above.
IV After completion of one-year duration of fellowship, the concerned
fellow/awardee shall submit the Progress report at the University/upload at the
tribal repository portal.
month from the date of issue of provisional award letter. If any research scholar 
doesn’t join within this stipulated time period, his/her award will be liable to 
be cancelled, and research scholar(s) from the waiting listmay be given opportunity 
to be considered. 
 
The research scholar and university will be required to complete the following 
formalities within one month of award of scholarship. 
 
The candidate will give the Joining report to the University/Institute
I. 
In case candidate has already been availing scholarship from the 
University/any other agency, he/she is required to refund the said amount and 
submit a certificate to that effect from the date of selection of fellowship.
II. 
Up-dation of documents at fellowship portal:
a. Refund receipt to be submitted online (For those research scholars who
availed fellowship/scholarship from other sources)
b. Check list as mentioned in provisionally award letter duly signed by the
University will be uploaded on portal by research scholar.
III. 
The 
research 
scholar 
will 
obtain 
No 
Objection 
Certificate 
from
University/Institute regarding non-availing of fellowship/scholarship by the 
research scholar from any other source and will upload on the portal. 
Up-dation of documents on designated bank portal/Agency
a. Joining report of the research scholar will be uploaded by the University
b. The Universities/ Colleges/ Institutions will submit the master data of the
eligible beneficiaries on the portal with a unique user’s profile (user name and 
password). The bank account numbers of the beneficiaries will be validated 
through PFMS for creation of beneficiary ID.
c. The following check-list will be followed.

4. Release of Fellowship: 
 
4.1 Release through PFMS system: 
 
 Scholarship will be released through PFMS by designated bank/Agency through 
Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) in active bank accounts linked with Aadhaar and 
Mobile number.
i. 
The designated bank will ensure that all formalities required by PFMS are 
completed and the scholarship is released to the scholar in his/her Aadhaar 
linked bank account and message is delivered to account linked mobile 
number.
ii. 
Mobile number given in the Aadhaar and bank account should be same. In 
order to avoid inconvenience, research scholars should keep the same mobile 
number and email id till completion of the course. In case of any change, they 
must notify on the portal.
iii. 
Payment of Fellowship to the selected research scholars will be made on 
quarterly basis, through PFMS to the accredited bank in DBT mode upon 
uploading the documents at the designated Bank portal by the universities 
and approved by the Ministry. This will also help Ministry to monitor through 
Public Financial Management System (PFMS).
4.2 Procedure for release and continuation of fellowship 
 
The fellowship amount stated in para 2.6 will be released to the account of the 
research scholar on quarterly basis. For this following process will be required to be 
completed by the University and research scholar.
i. 
The fellowship will be effective from the selection year in which the research 
scholar 
has 
been 
selected 
by 
the 
Ministry 
irrespective 
of
Admission/Joining/Registration in the University/College.
ii. 
The duration of the course will be counted from the admission year/joining 
year/registration year in the University/ College whichever is earlier. However, 
the fellowship amount for the earlier years [before selection by the Ministry] 
will not be admissible.
iii. 
The research scholar, who is awarded the Fellowship under the scheme, will 
be required to continue the course in the respective University/Institute on full 
time basis.

4.3 Procedure at the time of completion of course
i. 
The research scholar is required to submit his/her M.Phil/Ph.D certificate and 
course completion certificate to the Ministry.
ii. 
In order to have repository of research done by the research scholars, 
scholars are required to upload their thesis on the repository portal 
[repository.tribal.gov.in]. The fellowship amount of the last quarter will be 
released to research scholars only when they upload the thesis on the 
repository portal along with relevant metadata.
5. Other Issues 
 
5.1 Procedure to change the University 
 
The research scholar will be permitted to transfer the fellowship from one 
Universities/Institutes/Colleges to another Universities/Institutes/Colleges. This 
would require prior approval of the Universities/Institutes/Colleges where the fellow 
was pursuing the course and the new University where he intends to take transfer. 
The old university will initiate online transfer of the scholar at designated Bank portal 
and new university will accept the transfer request. Both old and new universities will 
also upload NOC [No objection certificate] for transfer at the same portal. After 
receiving online transfer request from both the universities, Ministry will approve the 
same. 
 
5.2 Procedure to change the subject/course: 
 
The research scholar will be permitted to change the subject with the prior approval 
of the Universities/Institutes/Colleges where the fellow is pursuing the course. The 
student will update necessary details on portal. However, duration of course will be 
2 years in case of MPhil and 5 years in case of M.Phil+Ph.D or Ph.D. 
 
5.3 Discontinuation of the course 
 
In case of discontinuation of course, the research scholar will submit the undertaking 
with reason for such discontinuation. University is required to mark as discontinued 
on the designated bank’s portal to stop the further payment. 
 
5.4 Tenure of Fellowship 
 
The tenure of scholarship would be 2 years for M.Phil students and 5 years for 
M.Phil+Ph.D or Ph.D students.

5.4.1 Date from which the tenure of scholarship will be counted. 
 
In case a student has taken admission for MPhil/PhD course in the previous year but 
could not apply or was not selected for the fellowship in that year, he can apply for 
the fellowship in subsequent year. In case a student is selected for fellowship in 2nd 
or subsequent year, he will be eligible for the remaining period of the course 
duration. For instance, if a student has taken admission for a course in 2020-21 but 
could not apply/be selected in 2020-21, and if he is selected for fellowship during 
2021-22, then he will receive the fellowship for the remaining 4 years duration of the 
course. 
 
5.4.2 In case of an M.Phil scholar willing to avail fellowship for Ph.D, he/she would 
be considered as an ongoing candidate and is not required to apply afresh. 
However, the fellowship will be available for a maximum of 5 years including M.Phil 
period of 1 year/2 years, as the case may be. 
 
5.4.3 In case there is any change of course, total duration of fellowship support will 
be limited to maximum 5 years 
 
5.5 Leave benefit for fellowship (as applicable to UGC research scholars)
i. 
The research scholars are entitled for a maximum period of 30 days of leave 
in a year, in addition to public holidays, with approval of the Head of the 
Department.
ii. 
Research scholars are eligible for maternity/paternity leave as per Govt. of 
India norms issued from time to time. No fellowship is admissible during such 
maternity/paternity leave. However, the fellowship will be extended for the 
period for which the leave was availed. For example, if a scholar is selected 
for Ph.D on 1st April 2022, he is eligible to receive fellowship till 31st March 
2027. In case a female research scholar avails maternity leave of 6 months 
from 1st January 2024 to 30th June 2024, then fellowship is not admissible 
during this period. However, her fellowship can be extended by 6 months i.e. 
up to 30th September 2027. During this extended period of 6 months she is 
eligible for fellowship.
iii. 
Beside this, an “Intermittent Break” for a maximum period of 1 year may also 
be permissible to women research scholars. The leave can be availed 3 times 
during the entire period of fellowship. Admissibility of fellowship during such 
Intermittent Break will be the same as given in above para 5.5(ii).
iv. 
Academic Leave: Academic leave without fellowship shall be permissible only 
for one 
year throughout 
the 
tenure 
(for any 
kind 
of 
academic

assignment/teaching/foreign visit in connection with research work). 
Admissibility of fellowship during such Academic leave will be the same as 
given in above para 5.5(ii). Expenditure on foreign or domestic visit in 
connection with research work is not covered under the scheme.
Note: Prior approval of the University/Institute/College is mandatory for all types of 
leaves. 
 
6. Cancellation of Award 
 
The fellowship of research scholar(s) is liable to be cancelled, in case of proven 
misconduct as communicated/certified by university authorities or found ineligible 
subsequently.
7.Grievance Module
Students/Institutes can register any query on MoTA’s dedicated grievance portal 
(www.tribal.nic.in/grievance).
8. Applicability of Guidelines 
 
These guidelines will be applicable from the selection year 2021-22 and onwards. 
However, the rates of fellowship will be effective from 1st April 2022. No arrears shall 
be paid for the period prior to 1st April 2022.
9. Change in the provisions of the scheme
The provisions of this Scheme may be modified from time to time by Ministry of 
Tribal Affairs, Government of India, with approval of the competent authority, by 
issuing circulars, addendum, memorandum etc. which will become part of the 
guidelines. 
 
 
================================================================

Course Duration Eligibility
Graduate level Course duration is fixed by
the Institutes. ST students who have secured
admission in the notified
Institutions and courses approved
by the Ministry will be eligible for
the scholarship under the scheme.
B. National Scholarship Scheme
1. Objective
National Scholarship Scheme is intended to encourage meritorious ST students to 
pursue courses at Graduate and Post Graduate level in premier institutes identified 
by the Ministry in professional fields such as Management, Medicine/Science, 
Engineering and Technology, Humanities, Law and Social Science etc.
2. Salient Features of the Scheme
This is a Central Sector Scheme, fully funded by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs and 
provides 100% funding to ST students in courses and institutes approved and 
notified by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs. The scholarship once awarded will continue 
till completion of the course tenure, subject to satisfactory performance of the 
student, as assessed by the institute.
2.1 Eligibility and course duration
Note 1: Students availing this scholarship are not eligible to claim benefit of any 
other scholarship scheme of the Centre/ State Govt. for the same study. 
 
Note 2: The duration of the course varies as per the course selected by the 
candidate. The scholarship, once awarded, will continue till the completion of the 
course, subject to satisfactory performance as certified by the Institute.
2.2 Income Criteria: The total family income of the student to be eligible for this 
scholarship from all sources should not exceed Rs.6.0 lakh per annum. The family 
income shall be computed in the following manner: -
i. 
In case where both father and mother are working, the combined income of 
both of them from all sources shall be takeninto account in computing total 
family income.

ii.
In case any other member of the family, other than father and mother is an
earning member, his or her income shall not be included in computing total
family income.
iii.
In case only one parent is alive, the income of that parent shall be taken into
account for considering total parental income. If other sibling or family
member is an earning member, their income shall not be included in
computing total family income.
iv.
In the case of an orphan, supported by a guardian, income criteria shall not
apply.
v.
In case of married candidates, the spousal income will also be added to
compute total family income.
Note 1: Definition of Income - Income means gross income including income from all 
sources e.g. Salary, Interest Income, Income from House property, Income from 
Business, Agricultural income, and Income from any other Sources etc. It is clarified 
that Income for the purpose of scholarship is not the taxable Income as defined in 
Income Tax Act. The deductions and exemption available in the Income Tax Act u/s 
10, Section 80 or any other section will not be available in computing gross Income 
under the scheme.
Note 2: Income certificate is required to be taken once only i.e. at the time of 
admission to courses which are continuing for more than one year. Income 
certificate should be for the financial year immediately preceding the selection year. 
For example, for the selection year 2022-23, income certificate for the financial year 
2021-22(Assessment year 2022-23) is admissible. In case of salaried employees 
Form-16 is accepted. In case of income from other sources, income certificate 
issued by the designated authority of the respective State/UT is accepted.
2.3 Universities/Institutions covered under the scheme: The Ministry of Tribal 
Affairs is authorized to select and notify the list of reputed premier Institutions. 
The present list of 252 notified Institution is given at Annexure- I. Students who 
have taken admission in these notified institutions are not eligible to apply under the 
Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme of this Ministry, in order to avoid duplication.
2.4 
 Slots of Scholarship:
All eligible students who have taken admission on merit to the identified premier 
institutes, and are verified by Institute and Ministry as per the norms of the scheme 
are eligible to receive scholarship. There is no Institute- wise/ State wise/ stream 
wise ceiling of number of slots. However, students admitted in Management quota in 
a private Institute will not be entitled to scholarship.

Sr. No. Component Details Remarks
1. Tuition Fees
and Admission
fee Full Admission fee, tuition
fee and other non-
refundable charges in
respect of
Government Institutes. There will be a ceiling of
Rs.2.50 lakhs per annum per
student for private sector
Institutes.
2. Books &
Stationery @ Rs.5000/- per annum per annum per student
without bills/vouchers.
3. Stipend @ Rs.3000/-per month -
4. Computer &
Accessories Rs.45000/- (One-time
assistance during the
course tenure) Computer & accessories may
be Desktop/Laptop etc.
(Without bills/vouchers)
2.5 Value of Scholarship:
The selected student will be eligible for financial assistance as stipulated in the 
following table, subject to fulfilment of conditions laid down in scheme:
3. Selection Process:
3.1 Online Application through Portal:
Applications are invited, processed, approved and scholarship is disbursed through 
National Scholarship Portal (www.scholarships.gov.in/) developed by (Ministry of 
Electronics and Information Technology). Students after taking admission for various 
courses in the notified Universities/Institutes will submit the application online in the 
above-mentioned portal for the scholarship. The date of opening and closing of 
portal will be given due publicity through print and electronic media and through 
Institutes and States. The tentative dates of opening and closing of portal will be 
advertised in the National Scholarship Portal every year (as decided by DBT 
Mission). Students are advised to keep watch on the portal for opening of application 
process. The applications submitted after the cut-off date and time shall not be 
entertained/ considered.
3.2 Registration Process: Before filling online application form, Candidates are 
required to register themselves on the online portal. Students are advised to carefully

S.
No. Graduate level
/Post Graduate
level courses Fresh
Candidate Renewal
Candidate Remarks
1 ST Certificate/
PVTG Certificate Yes No Caste Certificate is required
to be signed and stamped by
competent authority.
2 Income Certificate Yes No For fresh candidate:
Income Certificate for the F.Y
preceding the year of
selection issued by
designated authority by the
respective state/UT.
3 Fee Receipt Yes Yes
4 Scanned copy of
the bank passbook Yes Yes Student name on the
passbook should match with
the name as mentioned in the
application form
5 Mark
sheet/Certificate of
qualifying
examination Yes Yes For fresh Candidate:
Graduate level course: 12th
standard
Post graduate level course:
Graduation
For renewal Candidate:
Last passing [semester]
marksheet
6 Bona fide
Certificate issued
from the Institute Yes Yes
go through the “Guidelines for Registration on National Scholarship Portal” before 
initiating registration process.
3.4 Verification Process by University/Institute:
i. 
The portal has provision of online verification by the Institutes where the 
applicant has taken admission. Nodal Officers from the Institutes, dealing 
with Scholarship is required to register themselves on the National 
Scholarship Portal (NSP). For further details in this regard, the Institute

officials may go through the “Institute Operational Manual” available on NSP 
Portal.
ii. 
Nodal Officer from the Institutes will verify the physical documents of the 
applicant uploaded by him/her on the portal and ensure that the credentials 
uploaded in the portal are correct. It would be the responsibility of the Institute 
to ensure that information and documents uploaded by the applicant on the 
portal is correct and match with the physical documents submitted by the 
candidates for verification.
iii. 
Institute will be responsible for verifying genuineness of the requisite 
certificates furnished by the candidates so as to eliminate the possibility of 
students availing the Scholarship on fake certificates.
iv. 
All applications submitted at Institute level by the students within the 
stipulated date and time shall be processed.
v. 
The Institute will not charge any fee for verification of applications.
3.4.1 Verification Process by the Ministry:
After receiving student details duly verified by the Institute at NSP portal, online 
verification of application will be done by the Ministry. In case of any discrepancies 
found in the application, Ministry will mark application as defective and the defective 
application will be visible to the student. Student is advised to make correction in the 
defective application and required to resubmit once again on the portal at Institute 
level. Institute will verify the corrected application and submit it to the Ministry 
through portal for final verification and submit before the last date.
3.5 Publishing of the selection list: 
 
The list of candidates selected for the grant of scholarship will be published on 
website of Ministry of Tribal Affairs.
i. 
Decision of the Ministry for granting scholarship shall be final.
ii. 
 Ministry reserves the right to withdraw/cancel the scholarship without 
assigning any reasons.
4. Release of payment:
Payment of Scholarship to the selected students will be made once in a year through 
PFMS to the accredited bank through DBT mode in to the account of the student.
The selected candidates would be required to have bank accounts in the
banks having Core Banking Solutions. In case the students are not having Aadhaar

numbers, they are required to apply for Aadhaar Card, within a month of their 
registration/admission in the courses under the Scholarship.
4.1 Payment process: 
 
Payment of the Scholarship amount to ST students would be made in the following 
manner:
Component I: The Scholarship amount payable for Computer & accessories, Books 
and Stationery, stipend and non-refundable fee etc. will be released to students 
through PFMS-Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode into their Aadhaar seeded bank 
account.
Component II: The Scholarship amount payable towards tuition fee and Admission 
fee will be released to the Institute through PFMS. In case the student has already 
paid the tuition fee and admission fee at the time of admission, it will be reimbursed 
to the student’s Aadhaar seeded bank account on submission of receipt/vouchers.
4.2 Utilization Certificate from the Institute:
Institute is required to submit Utilization Certificate in the GFR-12A format online 
after receiving the Scholarship amount (tuition fee and admission fee) from the 
Ministry along with the list of students for whom the scholarship amount is received. 
Institute will refund the unspent balance, with accrued interest, if any, to the Ministry 
through DD payable at Sr. AO, PAO, M/O Tribal Affairs, New Delhi, Payable at Delhi 
SBI Shastri Bhawan along with the reasons of refund.
4.3 Up-dation of Expenditure at PFMS: 
 
The Institute is required to onboard and update online expenditure along with 
unspent balance at PFMS portal. The Institute may ensure that the PFMS 
expenditure should match with the details given in Utilization Certificate (UC) 
submitted to the Ministry. After updating the expenditure details on PFMS, Institute 
may refer EAT-02 report of PFMS. Based on the UC and EAT-02 report, scholarship 
will be released for the subsequent year. 
 
Note: In order to ensure timely release of scholarship to students, Institutes must 
ensure that they are onboarded and updated online expenditure along with unspent 
balance on PFMS. The Institute will not ask for the tuition fee from the students in 
case there is delay in release of amount by the Ministry to the Institute.

5.1 Updation of the completion of course at Ministry’s portal:
The completion of the Graduation/post-graduation course of the student is required 
to be updated by the University/Institute on the Ministry’s portal. 
 
5.2 Grievance Module: Students/Institutes can register any query on MoTA’s 
dedicated grievance portal (www.tribal.nic.in/grievance)
6. Applicability of Guidelines:
These guidelines will be applicable from the selection year 2021-22 and onwards. 
However, the rates of scholarship will be effective from 1st April 2022. No arrears 
shall be paid for the period prior to 1st April 2022.
7. Change in the provisions of the scheme
The provisions of this Scheme may be modified from time to time by Ministry of 
Tribal Affairs, Government of India, with approval of the competent authority, by 
issuing circulars, addendum, memorandum etc. which will become part of the 
guidelines.

S.No. Name of the Institute Location State Course
1 Indian Institute of Technology Delhi Hauz Khas, New Delhi 110016 Delhi All Engineering Courses
2 Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur Kharagpur-721302 West Bengal All Engineering Courses
3 Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur Kalyanpur, Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh 208016 Uttar Pradesh All Engineering Courses
4 Indian Institute of Technology Bombay Powai, Mumbai-400076 Maharashtra All Engineering Courses
5 Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati Guwahati-781039 Assam All Engineering Courses
6 Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee Roorkee - Haridwar Highway, Roorkee,
Uttarakhand 247667 Utarakhand All Engineering Courses including
Architecture
7 Indian Institute of Technology Madras Chennai-600036 Tamil Nadu All Engineering Courses
8 Indian Institute of Technology Ropar Rupnagar-140001 Punjab All Engineering Courses
9 Indian Institute of Technology Bhubaneswar Bhubaneswar-751013 Odisha All Engineering Courses
10 Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Old Residency Road, Ratanada, Jodhpur 342011 Rajasthan All Engineering Courses
11 Indian Institute of Technology Gandhinagar VGEC Complex, Chandkheda, Ahmedabad-
382424 Gujarat All Engineering Courses
12 Indian Institute of Technology Patna Bihta, Patna, Bihar 801103 Bihar All Engineering Courses
13 Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad Ordnance Factory Estate, Yeddumailaram-502205 Telangana All Engineering Courses
14 Indian Institute of Technology Mandi Kamand Campus, VPO Kamand, Distt. Mandi-
175005 Himachal Pradesh All Engineering Courses
15 Indian Institute of Technology, Indore IET DAVV Campus, M Block, Khandwa Road, Indore-
452017 Madhya Pradesh All Engineering Courses
16 Indian Institute of Technology (Banaras Hindu
University) Varanasi Varanasi-221005 Uttar Pradesh All Engineering Courses including dual
degree and integrated courses
17 Indian Institute of Technology , Jammu Paloura campus, Jammu Akhnoor Highway,
Jammu, Jammu & Kashmir Jammu All Engineering Courses

S.No. Name of the Institute Location State Course
18 Indian Institute of Technology , Palakkad Ahalia Integrated Campus, Palakkad Dist.,
Kozhippara, Kerala 678557 Kerala All Engineering Courses
19 Indian Institute of Technology , Tirupati Tirupati – Renigunta Road, Settipalli Post, Tirupati,
Andhra Pradesh 517506 Andhra Pradesh All Engineering Courses
20 Indian Institute of Technology , Goa Near ITI College, Farmagudi, Ponda, Goa 403401 Goa All Engineering Courses
21 Indian Institute of Technology , Bhilai Old Dhamtari Rd, Datrenga, Chhattisgarh 492015 Chhattisgarh All Engineering Courses
22 Indian Institute of Technology , Dharwad WALMI Campus, Belur Industrial Area, Near High
Court, PB Road, Karnataka 580011 Karnataka All Engineering Courses
23 National Institute of Technology Warangal Warangal-506004 Telangana All Engineering Courses
24 National Institute of Technology Silchar Silchar- 788010 Assam All Engineering Courses
25 National Institute of Technology Patna Patna-800005 Bihar All Engineering Courses
26 Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology
Surat Surat-395607 Gujarat All Engineering Courses
27 National Institute of Technology Jamshedpur Adityapur, Jamshedpur-831014 Jharkhand All Engineering Courses
28 National Institute of Technology Surathkal Surathkal- 574157 Karnataka All Engineering Courses
29 National Institute of Technology Calicut NIT Campus P.O. Calicut- 673601 Kerala All Engineering Courses
30 Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology Nagpur South Ambazari Road, Nagpur-440010 Maharashtra All Engineering Courses
31 National Institute of Technology Rourkela Rourkela-769008 Odisha All Engineering Courses including dual
degree and integrated courses
32 Dr. B. R. Ambedkar National Institute of Technology
Jalandhar G.T. Road Bye Pass, Jalandhar, Punjab, 144011 Punjab All Engineering Courses
33 National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra Kurukshetra-132119 Haryana All Engineering Courses

S.No. Name of the Institute Location State Course
34 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur Hamirpur-177001 Himachal Pradesh All Engineering Courses
35 National Institute of Technology Hazratbal Hazratbal, Srinagar-190006 Jammu and Kashmir All Engineering Courses
36 Maulana Azad National Institute of Technology
Bhopal Bhopal-462007 Madhya Pradesh All Engineering Courses
37 Malaviya National Institute of Technology Jaipur Jaipur- 302017 Rajasthan All Engineering Courses
38 National Institute of Technology Durgapur Durgapur-713209 West Bengal All Engineering Courses
39 National Institute of Technology Tiruchirappalli Tiruchirappalli-620015 Tamil Nadu All Engineering Courses
40 Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology
Allahabad Allahabad- 211004 Uttar Pradesh All Engineering Courses
41 National Institute of Technology Agartala Barjala, Jirania, Agartala- 799055 Tripura All Engineering Courses
42 National Institute of Technology Raipur G.E. Road, Raipur-492010 Chhattisgarh All Engineering Courses
43 National Institute of Technology Manipur Takyelpat, Imphal-795001 Manipur All Engineering Courses
44 National Institute of Technology Sikkim Barfung Block Ravangla Sub- Division South Sikkim-
737 Sikkim All Engineering Courses
45 National Institute of Technology Arunachal Pradesh Yupia, District Papum Pare- 791112 Arunachal Pradesh All Engineering Courses
46 National Institute of Technology Uttarakhand Temporary Campus, Government Polytechnic,
Srinagar (Garhwal)-246174 Aizawl Uttarakhand All Engineering Courses
47 National Institute of Technology Mizoram Aizawl, Mizoram, 796012, Mizoram All Engineering Courses
48 National Institute of Technology Nagaland Chumukedima, Dimapur-797103 Nagaland All Engineering Courses including material
sciences
49 National Institute of Technology Meghalaya Bijni Complex, Laitumkhrah, Shillong-793003 Meghalaya All Engineering Courses
50 National Institute of Technology Goa Farmagudi, Ponda, Goa-403401 Goa All Engineering Courses

S.No. Name of the Institute Location State Course
51 National Institute of Technology Puducherry Karaikal-609605 Puducherry All Engineering Courses
52 National Institute of Technology Delhi Institute of Applied Manpower Delhi All Engineering Courses
53 Indian Institute of Information Technology, Allahabad Devghat, Jhalwa, Allahabad- 211012 Uttar Pradesh Information Technology
54 Indian Institute of Information Technology, Sri City,
Chittoor, Andhra Pradesh 630 Gnan Marg, Sri City, Andhra Pradesh 517646 Andhra Pradesh Information Technology
55 Indian Institute of Information Technology,
Vadodara, Gujarat C/o Block No.9 (IC Department), Government
Engineering College, Sector 28, Gandhinagar,
Gujarat 382028 Gujarat All full time courses
56 Indian Institute of Information Technology, Sonepat,
Haryana Village- Kilrod, Haryana(India) C/O Director, NIT
Kurukshetra-136119 Haryana Information Technology
57 Indian institute of Information Technology, Una,
Himachal Pradesh Himachal Pradesh Pin No. 177 005 Himachal Pradesh Information Technology
58 Indian Institute of Information Technology, Ranchi,
Jharkhand Ranchi, Jharkhand, Bihar Information Technology
59 Indian Institute of Information Technology, Dharwad,
karnataka 3rd floor, IT park,, Hubli - Dharwad Hwy,
Deshpande Nagar, Hubali-Dharwad, Karnataka
580029 Karnataka Information Technology
60 Indian Institute of Information Technology,
Kottayam, Kerala Valavoor - Chakkampuzha Rd, Valavoor, Kerala
686635 Kerala Information Technology
61 Indian Institute of Information Technology, Nagpur,
Maharashtra 8/C/180/C, CPWD Colony, Seminary Hills, Nagpur,
Maharashtra 440006 Maharastra Information Technology
62 Indian Institute of Information Technology, Pune,
Maharashtra Talegaon-Chakan Road, Sudumbre, Maharashtra
412109 Maharastra Information Technology
63 Indian Institute of Information Technology, Senapati,
Manipur National Highway 39, Mantripukhri, Heingang,
Manipur 795002 Manipur Information Technology

S.No. Name of the Institute Location State Course
64 Indian Institute of Information Technology, Kota,
Rajasthan 2nd Floor, Prabha Bhawan, MNIT Campus,, JLN
Marg, Jaipur, Rajasthan 302017 Rajasthan Information Technology
65 Indian Institute of Information Technology,
Tiruchirapalli, Tamil Nadu NIT Campus, Tanjore Main Road, Near BHEL,
Tiruchirappali, Tamil Nadu 620015 Tamil Nadu Information Technology
66 Indian Institute of Information Technology, Lucknow,
Uttar Pradesh Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India Uttar Pradesh Information Technology
67 Indian Institute of Information Technology, Kalyani,
West Bengal Near Webel,IT-Park, Kalyani, West Bengal 741235 West Bengal Information Technology
68 Indian Institute of Information Tehnology, Guwahati GNB Road, Assam Textile Institute Campus,
Ambari, Guwahati, Assam 781001 Assam Information Technology
69 Indian Institute of Information Technology,Bhopal,
Madhya Pradesh RGPV Campus, Airport Road, Bhopal, Madhya
Pradesh 462033 Madhya Pradesh Information Technology
70 Indian Institute of Information Technology,Agartala,
Tripura R. K. Nagar (opposite to NEEPCO), P.S. Bodjhung
Nagar, pin, Khayerpur, Agartala, Tripura 799008 Tripura Information Technology
71 Indian Institute of Information Technology,Kakinada,
Andhra Pradesh 630 Gnan Marg, Sri City, Andhra Pradesh 517646 Andhra Pradesh Information Technology
72 Indian Institute of Information Surat Gujarat Gandhinagar, Gujarat, India Gujarat Information Technology
73 Atal Bihari Vajpayee Indian Institute of Information
Technology & Management Gwalior Morena Link Road Gwalior 474015 Madhya Pradesh Information Technology including
integrated courses
74 Pandit Dwarka Prasad Mishra Indian Institute of
Information Technology, Design & Manufacturing
Jabalpur Dumna Airport Road, P.O.: Khamaria, Jabalpur-
482005 Madhya Pradesh All full time courses

S.No. Name of the Institute Location State Course
75 Indian Institute of Information Technology, Design &
Manufacturing Kanchipuram Melakottaiyur Village, Off Vandalur-Kelambakkam
Road, Nellikuppam Road, Chennai-600127 Tamil Nadu All full time courses including dual degree
and integrated courses
76 Indian Institute of Information Technology, Design &
Manufacturing, Kurnool, Andhra Pradesh Kurnool, Andhra Pradesh, India Andhra Pradesh Information Technology
77 School of Planning & Architecture, Delhi 4-Block-B, IndraprasthaEstate, New Delhi-110002 Delhi All full time courses
78 School of Planning & Architecture, Bhopal Neelbad Road, Bhauri, Bhopal -462030 Madhya Pradesh All full time courses
79 School of Planning & Architecture, Vijaywada Sy. No. 71/1, NH-5, Nidamanuru, Vijaywada-
521104 Andhra Pradesh All full time courses
80 National Institute of Foundry & Forge Technology
Ranchi Hatia, Ranchi-834003 Jharkhand All full time courses
81 National Institute of Industrial Engineering, Mumbai Vihar Lake, Mumbai-400087 Maharashtra All full time courses
82 Indian School of Mines, Dhanbad Dhanbad- 826004 Jharkhand All full time courses in Engineering
and Sciences including dual degree and
integrated courses
83 North Eastern Regional Institute of Science and
Technology (NERIST) Nirjuli, Itanagar-791109 Arunachal Pradesh All Engineering and Science courses
including Forestry.
84 Delhi Technological University Shahbad Daulatpur, Main Bawana Road, New
Delhi, Delhi 110042 Delhi All full time Engineering Courses including
dual degree courses
85 Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Petroleum Technology Ratapur Chowk, Rae Bareli- 229316 Uttar Pradesh All Engineering Courses

S.No. Name of the Institute Location State Course
86 International Maritime Academy (IMA), Chennai Administrative Office: 41, Giri Road, T. Nagar,
Chennai - 600017; Academy Campus :No. 41,
Jamin Korattur, Pudhuchatram, (From
Poonamallee to Tirupathi Highway Road) Tamil Nadu All full time Naval Architecture, Ship
Building Courses including dual degree
and integrated courses
87 Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology
(IIST) Valiamala, P.O.,Thiruvananthapuram-695547 Kerala All Engineering Courses including dual
degree and integrated courses
88 BITS Pilani Pilani Campus, Vidya Vihar, Pilani, Rajasthan
333031 Rajasthan All Science and Engineering Courses
89 BITS Pilani KK Birla Goa Campus NH 17B Bypass Road, Zuarinagar, Sancoale, Goa
403726 Goa All Science and Engineering Courses
90 Birla Institute of Technology, Mesra Mesra, Ranchi, Jharkhand 835215 Jharkhand All Science and Engineering Courses
including integrated courses
91 BITS Pilani, Hyderabad Campus Jawahar Nagar, Shameerpet Mandal, Hyderabad,
Telangana 500078 Telangana All Science and Engineering Courses
92 Netaji Subhas Institute of Technology (NSIT) Azad Hind Fauz Marg, Sector 3,Dwarka, New Delhi,
Delhi 110078 Delhi All Engineering Courses
93 Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad Vastrapur, Ahmedabad- 380015 Gujarat All full time Management Courses
94 Indian Institute of Management Bangalore Bennerghat Road, Bangalore- 560076 Joka, Post
Box No. 16757, Karnataka All full time Management Courses
95 Indian Institute of Management Kolkata Alipara PO, Kolkata-700027 West Bengal All full time Management Courses
96 Indian Institute of Management Lucknow Post Box No. 2, Aliganj Extension, Part-II, Lucknow-
226020 Uttar Pradesh All full time Management Courses
97 Indian Institute of Management Kozhikode IIMK Campus, PO, Kozhikode-673570 Kerala All full time Management Courses

S.No. Name of the Institute Location State Course
98 Indian Institute of Management Indore Prabandh Shikhar, Rau- Pithampur Road Indore-
453556 Madhya Pradesh All full time Management Courses
99 Rajiv Gandhi Indian Institute of Management Shillong Mayurbhanj Complex, Nongthaymai, Shillong-
793014 Meghalaya All full time Management Courses
100 Indian Institute of Management Raipur GEC Campus, Sejbahar, Raipur-492 015 Chhattisgarh All full time Management Courses
101 Indian Institute of Management Rohtak Humanities Block, MDU Campus, Rohtak-124001 Haryana All full time Management Courses
102 Indian Institute of Management Ranchi Suchna Bhavan 5th Floor, Audrey House Campus,
Meur’s Road, Ranchi-834008 Jharkhand All full time Management Courses
103 Indian Institute of Management Udaipur Mohanlal Sukhadia University Campus, Udaipur-
313001 Rajasthan All full time Management Courses
104 Indian Institute of Management Tiruchirappalli NIT Campus (Post), Thanjavore Main Road,
Thuvakudi, Tiruchirappalli- 620015 Tamil Nadu All full time Management Courses
105 Indian Institute of Management Kashipur Bazpur Road, Kashipur, Udham Singh Nagar-
244713 Uttarakhand All full time Management Courses
106 Indian Institute of Management, Visakhapatnam Andhra Bank School of Business Building, Andhra
University Campus, Visakhapatnam – 530 003 Andhra Pradesh All full time Management Courses
107 Indian Institute of Management, Bodh Gaya Directorate of Distance Education Building,
Magadh University Campus, Bodh Gaya - 824234 Bihar All full time Management Courses
108 Indian Institute of Management, Sirmaur, Himachal
Pradesh IIM Sirmaur, Rampur Ghat Road, District Sirmaur,
Paonta Sahib, Himachal Pradesh 173025 Himachal Pradesh All full time Management Courses
109 Indian Institute of Management, Maharashtra VNIT Campus, South Ambazari Road, Nagpur,
Maharashtra - 440010 Maharastra All full time Management Courses

S.No. Name of the Institute Location State Course
110 Indian Institute of Management, Odisha C/o Silicon Institute of Technology, Silicon West,
P.O. Sason, Sambalpur, Odisha - 768200 Odisha All full time Management Courses
111 Indian Institute of Management, Punjab , Amritsar Punjab Institute of Technology Building, Inside
Government Polytechnic Campus, Polytechnic
Road PO: Chheharta, G.T. Road, Amritsar, Punjab -
143105 Punjab All full time Management Courses
112 Institute of Rural Management (IRMA) 60, Anand, Gujarat 388001 Gujarat All full time Courses
113 Indian Institute of Forest Management Bhopal PO Box.-357, Nehru Nagar, Bhopal-462003 Madhya Pradesh All full time Courses
114 Management Development Institute (MDI) Gurgaon Management Development Institute Mehrauli
Road Sukhrali, Gurgaon - 122 007. Haryana All full time Management Courses
115 Xavier Institute of Management Xavier Square, Jayadev Vihar, Jayadev Vihar,
Bhubaneshwar, Odisha 751013 Odisha All full time Management Courses
116 Symbiosis Institute of BusinessManagement Pune Khadki, Range Hill Road, Pune, Maharashtra
411020 Maharashtra All full time Management Courses
117 Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies
(JBIMS) Churchgate, Mumbai Maharashtra All full time Management Courses
including MSC (Finance)
118 XLRI - Xavier School of Management Circuit House Area, Sonari, Jamshedpur, Jharkhand
- 831001 Jharkhand All full time Management Courses
119 National Law School of India University, Bangalore PO Bag-7201, Nagarbhavi,Banglore-560072 Karnataka All Law Courses including integrated
courses
120 National Law Institute University Bhopal Kerwa Dam Road, Bhopal- 462044 Madhya Pradesh All Law Courses including integrated
courses
121 NALSAR University of Law Hyderabad Post Box No.1, Justice City,Shameerpet, R.R.
District, Hyderabad-500101 Telangana All Law Courses including integrated
courses

S.No. Name of the Institute Location State Course
122 National Law University, Jodhpur NH-65, Nagour Road, Mandore, Jodhpur-342304 Rajasthan All Law Courses including integrated
courses
123 The WB National University of Juridical Sciences
Kolkata Dr. Ambedkar Bhavan, 12, LB Block, Sector III, Salt
Lake City, Kolkata West Bengal All Law Courses including integrated
courses
124 Hidayatullah National Law University Raipur Uparwara Post, Abhanpur, New Raipur-493661 Chhattisgarh All Law Courses including integrated
courses
125 Gujarat National Law University Gandhinagar Attalika Avenue, Knowledge Corridor, Koba,
Gandhinagar- 382007 Gujarat All Law Courses including integrated
courses
126 Ram Manohar Lohia National Law University,
Lucknow Sector-D1,LDA Colony, Kanpur Road Scheme,
Lucknow-226012 Uttar Pradesh All Law Courses including integrated
courses
127 Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law, Punjab Sidhuwal - Bhadson Road, Patiala Punjab All Law Courses including integrated
courses
128 Chanakya National Law University, Patna Nyaya Nagar, Mithapur, Patna-800001 Bihar All Law Courses including integrated
courses
129 The National University of Advanced Legal Studies
(NUALS) NUALS Campus, H.M.T. Colony P.O., Kalamassery,
Ernakulam-683503 Kerala All Law Courses including integrated
courses
130 National Law University, Delhi Sector 14, Dwarka, New Delhi-110078 Delhi All Law Courses including integrated
courses
131 National Law University Odisha Kathajodi, Campus, SEC-13, CDA, Cuttack-753015,
Odisha Odisha All Law Courses including integrated
courses
132 All India Institute of Medical Sciences Delhi Ansari Nagar, New Delhi 11029 Delhi All Courses
133 Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical
Education & Research (JIPMER) Dhanvantri Nagar, Gorimedu, Puducherry, 605006 Puducherry All courses
134 Government Vellore Medical College Arni Road, Arani Road,Opposite Staff Quarters,
Adukkamparai, Vellore, Tamil Nadu 632011 Tamil Nadu All courses
135 Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu
University Varanasi Banaras Hindu University Varansai-221005 Uttar Pradesh All Courses

S.No. Name of the Institute Location State Course
136 Christian Medical College, Vellore NH234, Thottapalayam, Vellore, Tamil Nadu
632004, India Tamil Nadu All full time courses
137 Indian Agriculture Research Institute, Delhi Pusa, New Delhi-110012 Delhi All courses
138 Central Institute for Research on Cotton Technology
(CIRCOT) ICAR Mumbai Adenwala Road, Matunga, Mumbai-400019 Maharashtra All courses
139 Indian Veterinary Research Institute Izatnagar Izatnagar, Bareilly-243122 Jnana Bharti Campus,
P.O. Malathalli, Bengaluru-560056 Uttar Pradesh All courses
140 Indian Institute of Plantation Management, Banglore Jnana Bharti Campus,P.O. Malathalli, Bengaluru-
560056 Karnataka All courses
141 Indian Statistical Institute Delhi 7, SJS Sansanwal Marg, New Delhi-110016 Delhi All courses
142 Indian Statistical Institute Bangalore 8th Mile, Rvce Post, Mysore Road, RV Road,
Bengaluru- 560059 Karnataka All courses
143 Indian Statistical Institute Kolkata 203, Barrackpore Trunk Road, Kolkata-700108 West Bengal All courses
144 Indian Institute of Science Bangalore CV Raman Avenue, Yeshwantpura, Bengaluru-
560012 Karnataka All Courses
145 National Institute of Fashion Technology Delhi Hauz Khas, Near GulmoharPark, New Delhi-110016 Delhi All courses
146 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Bangalore C.A. Site, #21, 27th Main Road, Sector 1, HSR
Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560102 Karnataka All Courses
147 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Bhopal Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh 462001 Madhya Pradesh All Courses
148 National Institute of Fashion Technology,
Bhubansewar Plot - 3B, Block-LA, Sector III, Salt Lake City,
Kolkata, West Bengal 700098 Odisha All Courses

S.No. Name of the Institute Location State Course
149 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Chennai Dr Vikram Sarabai Instronic Estate 7th St, Phase II,
Taramani, Chennai, Tamil Nadu 600096 Tamil Nadu All Courses
150 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Hyderabad Opposite Hi-tech City, Cyberabad Post, Madhapur,
Hyderabad, Telangana 500081 Telangana All Courses
151 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Jodhpur Karwar,Jodhpur, Rajasthan,INDIA 342037 Rajasthan All Courses
152 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Kangra NIFT Campus, Talpura, Kangra, Himachal Pradesh
176001 Himachal Pradesh All Courses
153 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Kannur Dharmasala, Parassinikadavu, Kerala 670563 Kerala All Courses
154 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Kolkata Plot - 3B, Block-LA, Sector III, Salt Lake City,
Kolkata, West Bengal 700098 West Bengal All Courses
155 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Mumbai Plot no. 15, Sector 4, Kharghar, Navi Mumbai,
Maharashtra 410210 Maharastra All Courses
156 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Patna Near Jakkanpur Police Station, Mithapur Farm
Area, Mithapur, Patna, Bihar 800001 Bihar All Courses
157 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Rae Brali ITI Colony Area, Doorbhash Nagar, Raebareli,
Uttar Pradesh 229010 Uttar Pradesh All Courses
158 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Shillong 'C' Block, Pasteur Hills, Lawmali, Shillong,
Meghalaya 793001 Meghalaya All Courses
159 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Srinagar Badgam, Jammu and Kashmir 190007 Jammu and Kashmir All Courses
160 National Institute of Fashion Technology,
Gandhinagar GH-O Road, Behind Info City, Near
DAIICT, Gandhinagar - 382 007 Gujarat All Courses
161 National Institute of Design Ahmedabad Opp Tagore Hall, Paldi, Ahmedabad, Gujarat
380007 Gujarat All courses

S.No. Name of the Institute Location State Course
162 National Institute of Design Gandhinagar GH-0, Extension Road Near Infocity, Gandhinagar,
Gujarat 382007 Gujarat All courses
163 National Institute of Design Bangalore 12, HMT Link Road, Off Tumkur Road,
Yeshwanthpur Industrial Area, Phase 1,
Yeshwanthpur, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560022 Karnataka All courses
164 Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai V. N. Purav Marg, Deonar, Mumbai-400088 Maharashtra All courses
165 National Institute of Homeopathy, Kolkata Block - GE, Sector-III, Salt Lake, Kolkata-700106 West Bengal All courses
166 Film and Television Institute of India, Pune Law College Road, Pune- 411004 Maharashtra All courses
167 Indian Institute of Mass Communication, New Delhi JNU New Campus, Aruna Asif Ali Road, New Delhi-
110067 Delhi All courses
168 National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal Karnal -132001 Haryana All courses
169 Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering, Bhopal Nabi Bagh, Berasia Road, Bhopal-462038 Madhya Pradesh All courses
170 National Museum Institute of History of Art,
Conservation and Museology (NMIHACM) Janpath, New Delhi -110001 Delhi All Courses
171 All India Institute of Medical Sciences Bhopal Saket Nagar, Bhopal Madhya Pradesh All Courses
172 All India Institute of Medical Sciences Bhubaneswar Sijua, Patrapada, Bhubaneswar-751019 Odisha All Courses
173 All India Institute of Medical Sciences Jodhpur Jodhpur Rajasthan All Courses
174 All India Institute of Medical Sciences Patna Phulwari Sharif, Patna-801505 Bihar All Courses

S.No. Name of the Institute Location State Course
175 All India Institute of Medical Sciences Raipur Tatibandh, G E Road, Raipur- 492099 Chhattisgarh All Courses
176 All India Institute of Medical Sciences Rishikesh Virbhadra Road, Rishikesh- 249201 Uttarakhand All Courses
177 Kasturba Medical College (KMC) Mangalore &
Manipal Mangalore- 575001 & Manipal-576104 Karnataka MBBS/MS/MD/MSc/PG Medical Diploma
and all other full time courses
178 Sir JJ School of Art 78, Dr. D. N. Road, Fort, Mumbai-400001 Maharashtra All undergraduate, Post Graduate and
Diploma Courses.
179 National Institute of Ayurveda, Jaipur Madhav Vilas, Palace, Jorawar Singh Gate, Amer Rajasthan All courses
180 Viswa-Bharati PO: Santiniketan-731235 West Bengal B. Music,M. Music, B.F.A. in
Painting/Glass/Textile/History of
Art/Sculpture], M.F.A. in Painting/Graphic Art
(Print Making)/Design[Ceramic &
Glass/Textile/History of Art/Sculpture]
181 National School of Drama Delhi Bahawalpur House, 1, Bhagwandas Road, New
Delhi-110001 Delhi All full time courses
182 Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Guwahati
Campus 14-A, Bhuban Road, Uzanbazar, Guwahati 781 001 Assam All full time courses
183 Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Hyderabad
Campus SR Sankaran Block, AMR-AP Academy of Rural
Development, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad 500 030. Telangana All full time courses
184 Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Tuljapur
Campus Tata Institute of Social Sciences, School of Rural
Development Tuljapur-413 601, District-
Osmanabad, Maharashtra All full time courses
185 Indian School of Business (ISB) Knowledge City, Sector 81, SAS Nagar, Mohali,
Punjab 140306- Punjab Post Graduate Programme in
Management.

S.No. Name of the Institute Location State Course
186 Indian School of Business (ISB) Gachibowli, Hyderabad, Telangana - 500 032 Telangana Post Graduate Programme in
Management.
187 National Institute of Siddha, Chennai Tambaram, Chennai-600047 Tamil Nadu All full time courses
188 Netaji Subhas National Institute of Sports (NSNIS) Old Moti Bagh, Patiala - 147001 Punjab All full time courses
189 National Institute of Unani Medicine, Bangalore Kottigepalya, Magadi Main Road, Bengaluru-
560091 Karnataka All full time courses
190 Moraji Desai National Institute of Yoga, New Delhi 68, Ashoka Road, Near Gole Dak Khana, New Delhi-
110001 Delhi All full time courses
191 National Institute of Mental Health and
Neurosciences Hosur Road, Lakkasandra,Bengaluru, Karnataka
560029 Karnataka All full time courses
192 Central Food Technological Research Institute,
Mysuru, Karnataka Mysuru, Karnataka Karnataka All full time courses
193 National Institute of Food Technology
Entrepreneurship and Management Sonepat, Hrayana Haryana All full time undergraduate and Post
Graduate degree courses
194 Sri Venketeswara Institute of Medical Sciences
Tirupati Town Club, Alipiri Road, Chittoor Distt., Tirupati-
517507 Andhra Pradesh MBBS/MDS/ MCH and all other full time
courses
195 Vardhman Mahavir Medical College & Safdarjung
Hospital Delhi New Delhi-110029 Delhi MBBS/BDS/MDS/MD/MS/DM/ MCH and
all other full time courses
196 King George Medical College Lucknow (Erstwhile Chhatrapati Shahuji Maharaj Medical
University), Chowk, Lucknow-226003 Uttar Pradesh MBBS/BDS/MDS/MD/MS/DM/ MCH and
all other full time courses
197 Maulana Azad Medical College New Delhi Bahadur Shah Zafar Rd, New Delhi-110002 Delhi MBBS/BDS/MDS/MD/MS/DM/ MCH and
all other full time courses
198 Lady Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi Shaheed Bhagat Singh Marg, Connaught Place,
New Delhi- 110001 Delhi MBBS/BDS/MDS/MD/MS/DM/ MCH and
all other full time courses

S.No. Name of the Institute Location State Course
199 Madras Medical College and Government General
Hospital, Chennai E.V.R Periyar Salai, Park Town, Chennai-600003 Tamil Nadu MBBS/BDS/MDS/MD/MS/DM/ MCH and
all other full time courses
200 The English and Foreign Languages University
(Formerly known as CIEFL) Hyderabad 500007 Telangana All full time courses
201 Faculty of Management Studies, University of Delhi University of Delhi, Delhi-110007 Delhi MBA
202 National Institute of Mentally Handicapped
Secundrabad Manovikas Nagar, Secundrabad- 500009 Andhra Pradesh BRT/DSE/Bed(Spl. Ed.), PGD in early
Intervention, Diploma in early childhood
spl. Education, Diploma in VT & Emp.,
Med(Spl edu), M.Phil (Rehab psy), and all
other full time courses
203 Pt. Deendayal Upadhyaya Institute for the Physically
Handicapped, New Delhi 4, Vishnu Digamber Marg, New Delhi-110002 Delhi BOT/BPT and all other full time courses
204 Ali Yavar Jung National Institute for the Hearing
Handicapped, Mumbai K. C. Marg, Bandra (W) Reclamation, Mumbai-
400050 Maharashtra MASLP, S.Sc (ASLP), Med. (Hearing
Impaired), B.Sc. (Hearing Language &
speech), DHLS, DSE, Bed, CCA, DIT, CSL
and all other full time courses
205 Swami Vivekanand National Institute of
Rehabilitation Training and Research, SVNIRTAR,
Cuttack Olatpur, P.O. Bairoi, Cuttack- 754010 Odisha BOT/BPT/BPOE/DMB/MPT/MOT and all
other full time courses
206 National Institute For The Visually Handicapped,
Dehradun 116 Rajpur Road, Dehradun- 248001 Uttarakhand BA/Bed,SLT,PLT,CCPVIP and all other full
time courses
207 National Institute for the Orthopedically
Handicapped, Kolkata B T Road, Bonhooghly, Kolkata- 700090 West Bengal BOT/BPT/BPOE/PGDDRM and all other
full time courses

S.No. Name of the Institute Location State Course
208 National Institute of Technology Andhra Pradesh Chennai - Srikakulam Highway, Near Kondruprolu,
Tadepalligudam, Andhra Pradesh 534101 Andhra Pradesh All Engineering Courses
209 Indian Institute of Science Education & Research
(IISER), Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala Maruthamala PO, Vithura, Thiruvananthapuram,
Kerala 695551 Kerala All Full time courses
210 Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and
Technology, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala (Id: U-
0266) Near Medical College, Jai Nagar W Road,
Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala 695011 Kerala All Full Time Courses except Advance
Certificate Programmes in Physiotherapy
211 Indian Institute of Science Education & Research
(IISER), Pune Maharashtra Dr. Homi Bhabha Road, Ward No. 8, NCL Colony,
Pashan, Pune, Maharashtra 411008 Maharastra All Full time courses
212 Indian institute of Sciecne Education & Research
(IISER), Mohali, Punjab (Id: U-0377) Knowledge city, Sector 81, Manauli PO, Sahibzada
Ajit Singh Nagar, Punjab 140306 Punjab All Full time courses
213 National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and
Research, Mohali, Punjab (Id: U-0380) Sector 67, Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar, Punjab
160062 Punjab All Full time courses
214 Academy of Scientific & Innovative Research, Tamil
Nadu (Id: U-0713) Training and Development Complex, CSIR Campus,
CSIR Road, Tamil Nadu All Full time courses
215 Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of Youth
Development, Sriperumbudur, Tamil Nadu (Id: U-
0472) Singaperumal Koil - Sriperumbudur Rd, Sarala
Nagar, Sriperumbudur, Tamil Nadu 602105 Tamil Nadu All Full time courses
216 Indian Institute of Science Education & Research
(IISER), Kolkata, West Bengal (Id: U-0572) 35/1, 2nd Avenue, DC Block, Sector-1, Salt Lake
City, Bidhannagar, Kolkata, West Bengal 700064 West Bengal All Full time courses
217 Indian Institute of Engineering Science and
Technology, Shibpur, West Bengal P.O. - Botanic Garden, Howrah, West Bengal
711103 West Bengal All Full time courses

S.No. Name of the Institute Location State Course
218 Footwear Design & Development Institute, Noida,
Uttar Pradesh A-10/A, Sector 24, Gautam Budh Nagar, Noida,
Uttar Pradesh 201301 Uttar Pradesh All Full time courses
219 Indian Institute of Science Education and Research
(IISER), Tirupati Karakambadi Road, Rami Reddy Nagar, Mangalam
(P.O.), Tirupati, Andhra Pradesh 517507 Andhra Pradesh All Full time courses
220 Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Pusa, New Delhi Pusa, Library Avenue, New Delhi, Delhi 110012 Delhi Hotel Management Courses
221 Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Ahmedabad ihm ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, Gujarat 382421 Gujarat Hotel Management Courses
222 Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Goa Alto Porvorim, Bardez, Goa 403521 Goa Hotel Management Courses
223 Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Bangalore Pusa, Library Avenue, New Delhi, Delhi 110012 Karnataka Hotel Management Courses
224 Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Bhopal 1100 Quarters, Near Academy of Administration,
Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh 462016 Madhya Pradesh Hotel Management Courses
225 Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Hyderabad F-Row, D.D.Colony, Vidya Nagar, Hyderabad,
Telangana 500007 Telangana Hotel Management Courses
226 Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Jaipur Sikar Road, Bani Park, Jaipur, Rajasthan 302016 Rajasthan Hotel Management Courses
227 Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Lucknow Sector G, Sector L, Aliganj, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh
226024 Uttar Pradesh Hotel Management Courses
228 Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Mumbai SVS Rd, Aparna Vaibhav Society, Dadar West,
Mumbai, Maharashtra 400028 Maharastra Hotel Management Courses
229 Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Shillong Mawdiangdiang, East Khasi Hills District, Shillong,
Meghalaya 793018 Meghalaya Hotel Management Courses
230 Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Vashali, Bihar Ramashish Chowk, Hajipur – 844 101, Vaishali,
Bihar Bihar Hotel Management Courses

S.No. Name of the Institute Location State Course
231 Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Shimla Himachal Pradesh IHM, Kufri- Shimla Himachal Pradesh Hotel Management Courses
232 Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Srinagar, Jammu & Kashmir Rajbagh, Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir 190008 Jammu and Kashmir Hotel Management Courses
233 Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Thiruvananthapuram G.V.Raja Road, Kovalam, Thiruvananthapuram,
Kerala 695527 Kerala Hotel Management Courses
234 Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh Airport Road, Maharajpura, Gwalior(M.P.) -474005 Madhya Pradesh Hotel Management Courses
235 Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Gurdashpur, Punjab Mahapurush Madhabdev Path, Upper Hengrabari,
Opp. Doordarshan Colony, Hengerabari, Borbari,
Guwahati, Assam 781036 Punjab Hotel Management Courses
236 Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Chennai, Tamil Nadu 4 th Cross Street, C.I.T Campus, TTTI – Taramani
P.O.,Chennai – 600 113, Tamil Nadu Hotel Management Courses
237 Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Bhubaneswar, Odisha Near Indian Overseas Bank, V.S.S. Nagar,
Bhubaneswar, Odisha 751007 Odisha Hotel Management Courses
238 Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Guwahati, Assam Mahapurush Madhabdev Path, Upper Hengrabari,
Opp. Doordarshan Colony, Hengerabari, Borbari,
Guwahati, Assam 781036 Assam Hotel Management Courses
239 Indian Institute of tourism & Travel Management,
Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh University Rd, Kailash Nagar, Govindpuri, Gwalior,
Madhya Pradesh 474011 Madhya Pradesh Hotel Management Courses
240 B.J. Medical College, Ahmedabad New Civil Hospital, Civil Hospital Rd, Haripura,
Asarwa, Ahmedabad, Gujarat 380016 Gujarat MBBS/BDS/MDS/MD/MS/DM/MCH
241 Government Medical College, Calicut Medical College Road, Kozhikode, Kerala 673008 Kerala MBBS/BDS/MDS/MD/MS/DM/MCH

S.No. Name of the Institute Location State Course
242 King Edward Memorial Hospital, Mumbai Acharya Donde Marg, Parel, Mumbai, Maharashtra
400012 Maharastra MBBS/BDS/MDS/MD/MS/DM/MCH
243 National Institute for Empowerment of Persons with
Multiple Disabilities, Chennai, Tamil Nadu (Under
M/o Social Justice & Empowerment) East Coast Road, Kanchipuram, Tamil Nadu
600119 Tamil Nadu B.Ed/Diploma/M.Ed/BOT/BPT/BPO/B.A.SL
P/PGDEI
244 Indian Institute of Foreign Trade, Delhi (M/o
Commerce) IIFT Bhawan, B-21, NRPC Colony, Block B, Qutab
Institutional Area, New Delhi, Delhi 110016 Delhi MBA
245 Indian Institute of Foreign Trade, Kolkata (M/o
Commerce) 1583, Chowbagha Road, Ward No 108, Borough
XII, Madurdaha, Kolkata, West Bengal 700107 West Bengal MBA
246 Indian Institute of Packaging, Mumbai (M/o
Commerce) Plot E-2, Rd Number 8, Chakala Industrial Area
(MIDC), Andheri East, Mumbai, Maharashtra
400093 Maharastra Post Graduate Diploma in Packaging
247 Indian Institute of Science Education and Research,
Berhampur Engineering School Road, NH-59, Berhampur-
760010, District Ganjam ODISHA All Full time courses
248 Indian Institute of Information Technology,
Bhagalpur Bhagalpur College of Engineering Campus Sabour,
Bhagalpur - 813210 BIHAR All Full time courses
249 Indian Institute of Science Education and Research,
Bhopal Bhopal Bypass Road, Bhauri, Bhopal 462 066 MADHYA PRADESH All Full time courses
250 Indian Institute of Information Technology, Raichur Indian Institute of Technology, Kandi, Sangareddy-
502285 KARNATAKA All Full time courses
251 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Mangalagiri MG Capmus, Mangalagiri, Guntur District Andhra
Pradesh-522503 ANDHRA PRADESH All Full time courses
252 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Nagpur Plot No 2, Sector-20, MIHAN, Maharashtra -
441108 MAHARASHTRA All Full time courses
253 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bathinda Mandi Dabwali Road, Bathinda
Punjab-151001 Punjab All Full time courses

S.No. Name of the Institute Location State Course
254 Dharmashastra National Law University, Jabalpur BRBRAITT Campus South Civil Lines, Ridge Road
Jabalpur- 482001 Madhya Pradesh All Law Courses including integrated
courses
255 Indian Institute of Information Technology,
Vadodara - International Campus Diu Education Hub, Kevdi - Diu (U.T) - 362520 Daman and Diu All Full time courses
256 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bibinagar Bibinagar, Telangana 508126 Telangana All Full time courses
257 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Deoghar Deoghar, Jharkhand -814152 Jharkhand All Full time courses
258 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Gorakhpur Kunraghat, Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh -273008 Uttar Pradesh All Full time courses
259 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Kalyani NH - 34 Connector Basantapur, Saguna, Kalyani,
West Bengal - 741245 West Bengal All Full time courses
260 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Raebareli Dalmau Rd, Munshiganj, Uttar Pradesh 229405 Uttar Pradesh All Full time courses
261 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Guwahati Silbharal Changsari, Guwahati, Assam -781101 Assam All Full time courses
262 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bilaspur Changar Palasiyan, Himachal Pradesh 174001 Himachal Pradesh All Full time courses
263 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Rajkot Khanderi, Para Pipaliya, Rajkot, Gujarat, 360006 Gujarat All Full time courses
264 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jammu Vijaypur, Jammu and Kashmir, 180001 Jammu and Kashmir All Full time courses
265 Indian Institute of Management, Jammu Canal Road Nawabad, Cantonment, Jammu,
Jammu and Kashmir - 180016 Jammu and Kashmir All full time Management Courses