SOURCE_PDF: 0ab4c71e996e_Non-Teaching-Staff-Members-Advertisement-IITJ-OR_NF_-2025-26-61-638947542429193016.pdf

1 Number of Posts 2 (1-UR & 1-OBC)
2 Pay (Consolidated) Rs. 60,000-1,00,000
3 Age Limit (as on the last date
of application) 45 years
4 Educational and
Other Qualifications (1) M.D. or M.S. in an appropriate branch of Medicine
OR
(2) M.B.B.S. with Postgraduate Diploma in an appropriate
branch of Medicine plus at least 2 years’ experience in a
recognized hospital.
OR
(3) M.B.B.S. including completion of compulsory rotatory
internship followed by at least 4 years’ experience in a
recognized hospital.
Desirable Qualifications:
(1) Specialization in medicine/ chest diseases/ paediatrics/
Obstetrics / Gynaecology or family medicine
(2) The work experience should be in a medical college or
large Govt./private Hospital.
5 Tenure of appointment The appointment for the above said post is on purely
temporary and contractual basis, initially for a period of one
year which will be further extended as per the requirement of
the Institute subject to satisfactory performance after annual
performance review
Website: www.iitj.ac.in Page 1 of 2
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Office of Recruitment (NF)
Admin Block (West), Nagaur Road, Karwar 342030, Jodhpur
Advt. No: IITJ/OR(NF)/2025-26/61 
Dated: 29 September 2025
ADVERTISEMENT FOR MEDICAL OFFICER (ON CONTRACT)
Online applications are invited for Indian National for the post of Medical Officers (on contract),
initially for a period of one year which will be further extended as per the requirement of the Institute 
subject to satisfactory performance after annual performance review. The post is temporary and on a 
contract basis. The details of the above said post is as under:
1. Name of the Post -Medical Officer (On Contract)
The candidates having requisite qualifications and fulfilling other eligibility conditions may
apply for the above post from 29 September 2025 to 28 October 2025 in the following link: 
https://erponline.iitj.ac.in/CAREER/auth/onlineApplication.htm

1. The candidate(s) who fulfills the requirements may apply for the same from 29 September 2025 to
28 October 2025 from Institute website along with copy of all the certificates in support of their
qualification, experience as well as No Objection Certificate from the present employer, if applicable.
2. Selected candidates shall not have claim on any regular position and shall not be bestowed any of
the privileges like Housing, Medical Facility and Other benefits available to the regular employees
of the Institute.
3. Applicants are advised to ensure, before appearing for the post, that they possess the minimum
essential qualification and experience laid down for the post. Qualification obtained has to be from
recognized University/Institute. Eligibility in terms of age, qualification and experience of a
candidate shall be considered as on the last date of application.
4. Interested candidates may also in their own interest ensure that they fulfill the eligibility
conditions. Ineligible candidates will not be allowed to appear for interview. Verification of
documents will be done before the interview.
5. In case of large number of applicants, the Competent Authority, IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to
shortlist candidates by adopting appropriate criteria.
6. The number of vacancies indicated in the notification is tentative. IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to
increase or decrease or NOT to fill any of the post advertised.
7. No TA/DA will be paid for attending the Interview.
8. In case of any inadvertent mistake in the process of selection, which may be detected at any stage
even after issue of the appointment letter, the Institute reserves the right to modify, withdraw or
cancel any communication made to the Applicants.
9. After joining the service of the Institute, the person(s) will have to abide by the Rules, Regulations,
Ordinances, Statutes and Act of the Institute applicable from time to time. He/ She may be assigned
any duty within or outside the Institute depending upon the exigency of the work.
10. The Institute shall verify the antecedents or documents submitted by a person at the time of
appointment or during the tenure of the service. In case, it is detected that the documents
submitted by the candidates are fake, or the person has a clandestine antecedents or background
and has suppressed the said information, then his/her services shall be terminated forthwith and
legal action may be initiated against such candidates/employees.
11. No interim correspondence whatsoever will be entertained from the candidates.
12. Canvassing in any form or bringing in any political influence or otherwise will be a disqualification
for the post.
13. In case of any dispute/ambiguity that may occur in the process of selection, the decision of the
Institute shall be final.
14. The applicants are required to apply only through ONLINE process up to 28 October, 2025 till
23:59 Hrs with attachment of all required documents, failing which candidature will not be
considered. The application which will be completed (frozen) shall only be considered.
Enquiry/queries related to eligibility for any of the post/interpretation of rules or forwarding of
application will not be entertained.
Address:
Office of Recruitment (Non-Faculty)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH-62, Nagaur Road, Karwar
Jodhpur 342 030
Ph: 0291 280 1091
eMail: recruitment@iitj.ac.in
Website: www.iitj.ac.in Page 2 of 2
General Instructions to the applicants:
Registrar (Offg.)