SOURCE_PDF: 0d2d2e619b8b_IIT-Jodhpur-House-Allotment-Rules-2024-638876792434915554.pdf

IIT Jodhpur House Allotment Rules - 2024
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Content Page
Table of Content
Scope 
3
Definitions 
3
1. 
Types of Houses at IIT Jodhpur 
4
2. 
Eligibility for a House on Campus 
4
3. 
Seniority List 
5
4. 
House Allotment Committee (HAC) 
5
5. 
Charges Payable by the resident of House to the Institute 
6
6. 
Period of Retention 
7
7. 
Code of Conduct for Allotees 
8
8. 
Conditions for Allotment of House and Rules of Occupancy 
9
9. 
Process of Allotment of House 
10
9.1 Normal Allotment 
10
9.2 Allotment Rules under Special Cases 
11
9.3 Discretionary House Allotment 
12
9.4 Allotment to Employees Married to each other 
12
10. Maintenance 
13
11. Unauthorized Occupation 
13
12. Punitive Actions 
14
14. Disciplinary Action 
14
15. Resolution of Matters 
15
15.1 Appellate Authority 
15
15.2 Rules, Procedures and Matters not covered 
15

Term Meaning
Allotment Grant of license to occupy a residential accommodation in
accordance with the provision of these House Allotment Rules
Allottee Employee to whom the residential accommodation is allotted
HAC House Allotment Committee, duly appointed by the Institute
HARs Housing Allotment Rules
Director Chief Academic and Administrative Officer of the Institute
Level Payment (as per Rules of 7th CPC) associated with Pay Level of
employment as granted to an Employee of the Institute
Entitlement Highest type of accommodation that an employee is eligible under
these rules
Family Spouse, children, stepchildren, legally adopted children, parents,
brothers and sisters, who ordinarily reside with and who are
dependent on the Employee
Institute Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Rent cum License
Fee Sum of money payable on monthly basis as compensation for
occupation of a residential accommodation allotted under these
Rules. It includes Rent cum License Fee as mentioned in Annexure-I.
Subletting Sharing accommodation by an Allottee with another person with or
without any payment by such other person, but it doesn’t include any
permission to share accommodation with:
(1) Close relation(s) of the Allottee,
(2) Guest(s) visiting the Allottee, or
(3) Others, and as may be notified by the Institute from time to time
Type Category (in terms of size and facilities) of accommodation to which
an employee is eligible under these Rules
Scope
These rules shall be read as IIT Jodhpur House Allotment Rules 2024. Further, these rules shall 
be: 
 
(a) Effective from the date of Notification by the Institute; 
(b) Applicable to all Employees of the Institute and others eligible for residential
accommodation within the Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur; and
(c) Superseding all the earlier House Allotment Rules released by the Institute so far. 
 
These rules shall be reviewed 3 years from the date they come into force, unless otherwise 
circumstances compel for an earlier review. Any addition or amendment suggested shall 
come into force only after the recommendation of the Deans’ Group and approval of the 
Director and the Board of Governors of the Institute.
Definitions
For the purpose of these IIT Jodhpur House Allotment Rules and better understanding, unless 
otherwise stated on individual occasions, the following terms shall have the meaning as 
stated hereunder:

S. No. Group of Employee Entitled House Type Plinth Area (m2) Pay Level as per 7th
CPC
1. Group A Type – VI 254 Level 14 and above
2. Type – V 186 to 216 Level 12 and above
3. Type – IV(S) 147 Level 11 and above
Type – IV 118 to 135 Level 10 and above
4. Group B Type - III 82 to 85 Level 6 and above
5. Group B & C Type - II 75 Level 3 to 5
This chapter provides primary information related to houses on the Permanent Campus of 
IIT Jodhpur. 
 
The types of Houses available (or likely to be available) for allotment to the employees serving 
at the Institute at different Pay Levels are given as under:
Eligibility / Entitlement of Different Types of Accommodation
Note: The employees are eligible to apply for Houses of lower category than their entitlement. 
 
2. Eligibility for a House on Campus 
 
This chapter presents the eligibility criteria for allotment of Houses on campus to the employees of 
IIT Jodhpur.
The following persons shall be eligible for various types of house (Types-II, Type-III, Type-IV, 
Type-IV(S), Type-V, Type-VI) available on Campus, as per their respective entitlement, as given in 
the table (Chapter 1): 
(1) Regular, Contract, Project and some other special categories of employees of the Institute; 
(2) Visiting/Distinguished Faculty Members; 
(3) Scholars-in-Residence, Visiting Faculty, Emeritus Professor, Distinguished Professor, Professor
of Practice, Professor of Practice in Creative Arts, and Faculty Member (On Sabbatical).
(4) Employees on Deputation. 
 
An Employee shall be eligible for allotment of a house on campus, even if she/he is owning a house 
either in his/her own name or in the name of any member of his family within the jurisdiction of 
Municipal Corporation of Jodhpur, Jodhpur Development Authority or of any Municipality adjoining the 
Karwar village. 
 
Further: 
(a) If both a person and his/her spouse are Employees of the Institute, then only one of them shall be
eligible for the allotment of house, based on their mutual choice regarding the type of house 
they are eligible for;
(b) Change of Allotment of a house is permissible within the same Type of housing on Campus
only once after the completion of 4 Years of house occupation of the applicant, unless otherwise

recommended by HAC and approved by the Competent Authority based on genuine or health 
reasons. If an Employee is residing in the IIT Jodhpur campus and having a period less than one 
(01) year of service from the date of his superannuation, then he/she shall not be eligible to 
apply for a change to another type of House;
(c) An employee can opt to apply for a lower type of house, other than that to which s/he is
entitled; and
(d) All houses are chargeable; the Institute shall not allot any rent-cum-license free accommodation
to any category of Employee.
3. Seniority List 
 
For the purpose of allotment of a house, the seniority list of applicants from among the employees 
shall be prepared by applying the criteria given below in serial order: 
 
(1) A particular house can be allotted only to a person who meets the criteria as given in the Table
of Section 1 of the IIT Jodhpur House Allotment Rules 2024; those with lower Grade Pay (GP)/ 
Academic Grade Pay (AGP) cannot be allotted a house, even if there is no applicant from the 
entitled GP/AGP.
(2) Applicants shall be placed on a list in the order of their:
(a) Grade Pay/ Academic Grade Pay; persons with higher GP/ AGP shall be senior to those
with lower GP/ AGP, irrespective of their Basic Pay as on the date of the announcement of 
availability of the house;
(b) Effective date of joining a post (appointed either directly or through promotion) or date of
receiving the GP/ AGP; persons with earlier date of joining shall be placed above those with 
latter date of joining;
(c) Date of joining the first post at Institute (as a Visiting Faculty Member, a Faculty Member on
contract or probation, or as a Staff Member on contract or probation); persons who joined 
earlier shall be placed above those who joined later.
4. House Allotment Committee (HAC) 
 
The Committee responsible for allotment of Houses, hereinafter called the House Allotment 
Committee (HAC), shall be constituted by the Director with the following nominated members. The 
tenure of the HAC shall be two (02) years. 
 
(1) A Faculty Member 
 
 
: Chairman
(2) 2 Faculty Members 
 
 
: Member
(3) A Staff Member (Group A) 
 : Member
(4) A Staff Member (Group B/ C) 
 
: Member
(5) Estate Officer 
 
 
 
: Member-Secretary
The functions of the HAC are: 
(1) Allot Houses on campus under these rules; 
(2) Recommend the House allotments to the Director in accordance with the provisions of these
(3) Consider requests for out-of-turn allotment and make suitable recommendations in appropriate
cases for approval by the Director;
(4) Ensure proper utilization of the Houses; 
(5) Cancellation of allotment and recommend the penal action against an Allottee, who breaches the
HARs; and
(6) Consider and recommend all other matters related to the Institute Houses.

An appeal may be made to the Director through the Chairman, House Allotment Committee, against a 
decision of the HAC. Such an appeal shall be submitted to the Chairman, House Allotment Committee, 
within seven (07) days from the receipt of such decision from HAC. On receiving the appeal along 
with the observations and recommendations of the Chairman, House Allotment Committee, the 
Director shall exercise the power to resolve such appeals; the decision of the Director shall be final 
and binding on the Allottee. 
 
5. Charges Payable by the Resident of House to the Institute 
 
The charges related to allotment of different houses, are as given below: 
(1) Rent cum License Fee: It is a flat-rate monthly charge payable to the Institute by the Allottee for the
unfurnished residential accommodation made available by the Institute, as per the charges duly 
approved by the Institute. The currently applicable rent-cum-license fee for different types of 
houses on the Campus are given in Annexure-I. This charge shall be based on Living Area & it 
shall be different for the employees and outside agencies. It shall include charges towards 
Common Services, which may include providing Lighting in Staircases and Common Areas, 
running the Lifts, and collecting & disposing Solid Waste. This fee will be reviewed annually;
(2) House Rent Allowance (HRA): It is a payment made to each Employee each month, which comes
under the purview of the Allowances (other than Salary), as determined by the Government of 
India from time to time. The employees occupying institute accommodation shall not be eligible 
for HRA.
(3) Additional Charges: The following are monthly charges to be paid by the Allottee, in addition to
the Rent cum License Fee:
(a) Water Charges
Water service includes provision of water to each House. A flat-rate monthly charge or as per 
consumption basis (on metering), as the case may be, for such service shall be payable by each 
Allottee to the Institute. These charges would be revised by the Institute periodically; and
(b) Electricity Charges
Electricity service includes provision of electrical power to each House. A monthly charge as 
per consumption basis (on metering) subject to a minimum consumption charge plus a monthly 
fixed charge / meter rent, for such service shall be payable by each Allottee to the Institute. The 
monthly electricity consumption charges and fixed charge/meter rent will be reviewed/ 
revised based on the Rajasthan Government Tariff.
The charges listed under item (1) shall be determined from time to time by the Office of Estate, 
for the item (2) shall be determined from time to time by the Office of Establishment and for the 
item (3) shall be determined from time to time by the Office of Infrastructure Engineering, duly 
approved by the Competent Authority, and intimated to all Employees of the Institute by the 
Office of Estate. 
 
The said charges will be deducted from the monthly salary of each individual Allottee. 
 
The Institute may identify, from time to time, other charges that are payable by the Allottee to 
the Institute duly approved by Competent Authority; the same will be intimated to all Employees 
of the Institute.
(4) Furnishings: These are the items that make the house functional. The Institute will provide only
unfurnished houses to the Allottee, and all furnishings required for personal stay should be 
arranged by the Allottee;
(5) As per the Master Plan of the Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur, no Allottee shall be provided
with any personal gardening space. The Allottees shall not be charged for Horticulture & 
Gardening in common areas, which will be arranged by the Institute; and

S.
No. Event Maximum
Period Conditions / Remark Charges
1. On proceeding to take up
leadership position, elsewhere
with the permission of
Competent Authority, by
retaining Lien on his/her post or
with Extraordinary Leave 24 Months Any period beyond 24 months,
requires specific approval of the
Director. Normal
Rent cum
License Fee
and Water
Charges,
and
Electricity
Charges as
per actual
2. On proceeding to take up
employment, elsewhere with the
permission of Competent
Authority, by retaining Lien on
his/her post or with Extraordinary
Leave 6 Months Any period beyond 6 months,
requires specific approval of the
Director.
3. Vacation or Leave of All Types Full Period
4. Deputation or Training Full Period
5. Proceeding elsewhere under
approved Exchange Program Full Period
6. Death of Allottee 12 Months The accommodation is provided
for bonafide use of the
Dependent Members of the
family of the deceased, only for
their occupancy during the
period.
7. Retirement or Superannuation 03 Months In case of Faculty Members and
Staff Members of the Institute re-
hired after the date of
superannuation, this period will
be reckoned from the date of
completion of such re-
appointment period.
8. Completion of tenure for Director 01 Month This period will be counted from
the date on which such action
comes into force.
9. Completion of tenure for Registrar 03 Months
10. Resignation from the service for
employees on regular pay scale 03 Months
11. Dismissal, Removal or 01 Month The approval for the extension
(6) Specific Requirements: In special cases (such as providing furniture, appliances, or fixtures in
Visiting Faculty Housing, if any, as per the policy of the Institute), additional rent is payable to 
the Institute by an Allottee for the said conveniences, which shall be determined by the Office of 
Estate, duly approved by the Competent Authority.
6. Period of Retention
(1) The allotment shall be effective from the date on which possession thereof is taken by the
Employee and the period of retention of a House shall be till the last working day of the 
employee at the Institute or the date on which the employee surrenders house or the date on which the 
accommodation is cancelled by the Institute authorities under exceptional circumstances.
(2) Further, the allottee will be entitled to retain the house for an extended period, subject to
approval by the Competent Authority, as given in the table below:
Table: Extended Period of Retention of House on Approval of the Competent Authority

Termination of service of
employees on regular pay scale of retention of house can be
given by the Director only and
will be based on the
recommendation of the
concerned Head of the
Department.
12. Any such event which is not
covered above (S. No 1-11) As per the approval of
Competent Authority, the
permitted period will be
considered.
(3) An Employee, who has surrendered the House allotted to him/her while proceeding or during
the period of leave/lien, may be allotted a House (if available) up to one month in advance of 
the expected date of his/her returning to duty in the Institute.
(4) An Employee, at any time, may surrender a House allotted to him/her by giving a notice so as
to reach the Office of Estate at least one month before the date of the vacation of the House. The 
allotment of the House shall be deemed to be cancelled with effect from the 31st day after the 
day on which the letter is received by the Office of Estate, or on the date specified in the letter, 
whichever is later. Vacating house without due notice will attract the payment of Rent cum 
License Fee for an additional 1 month from the date of vacating the House.
7. Code of Conduct for Allotees 
 
The Allottees of the Houses shall be bound by the following Code of Conduct: 
(1) The House is allotted to the Allottee only, which she/he can use for living by her/him and
her/his family. Any other person is not allowed to reside in the House. The Allottee shall vacate 
the house, if she/he or his/her family is not staying in the house, the reason for which is duly 
approved by the Institute;
(2) The Allottee shall NOT
(a) Sublet (either partly or fully) the house allotted to him/her, or use the same for any
commerce, trade or business;
(b) Exchange mutually the houses with another Allottee; 
(c) Undertake any alteration or addition to the structure of the house for any purpose
(including for keeping a car, scooter or any other item). On the other hand, the Institute may 
undertake alterations and additions as it may deem necessary over time. In such cases, the 
Allottees shall cooperate with the institute for undertaking such activities;
(d) Undertake any civil, electrical or physical modifications, remove fixtures, or make any other
kind of modification (including changing colours of external wall; and creating of roofs, 
structures, enclosures, shades and any such temporary/permanent installations);
(e) Rear milk cattle or any other cattle, either within the house or outside it; 
(f) Tamper with the electric installations, water supply & sanitary fittings, or other fixtures
made available in the house provided by the Institute;
(g) Use electricity or water supplied to the house for any unauthorized purpose; 
(h) Encroach upon any public space or floor space of neighbour’s house for gardening or for any
other purpose, either personal or professional;
(i) Cut or trim trees in the premises of the allotted house or on the Campus, or plant any trees
along the building line. (Plantation may be permitted in consultation with OIE/ Horticulture 
Office) (even though soil cover may be available); and
(j) Store any illegal weapon, explosive or inflammable material in the house. If a complaint is
received to this effect, and proved to be true, the matter will be treated as a serious offence. 
Also, the Allottee shall be liable for penal or disciplinary action, or even be liable to vacate 
the house within 1 month of the notification by the Institute.

inventory given by the Office of Infrastructure Engineering . He/she shall be responsible for
(3) The Allottee shall pay regularly all charges due, as prescribed by the Institute from time to time; 
(4) The house allotted is to the Allottee with a certain inventory of civil and electrical fixtures. Any
breakage in the fixtures shall be replaced by the Institute only, but the costs incurred towards 
the same (including the service charges) shall be payable in full by the Allottee. The charges 
payable shall be deducted from the salary of the Allottee in the ensuring month(s);
(5) The Allottees can arrange to fix (at their own cost) air-conditioners in specific rooms of the
house. Only Split-type Air-Conditioners shall be permissible and the external unit shall be placed 
only in the shaft provided for this purpose; the connecting wires & pipes from the interior unit to 
the exterior unit, drain pipe, shall pass only through the earmarked route. The Dish TV Antenna 
should be fixed only in the earmarked location of the building;
(6) The Allottee shall report immediately to the Office of Infrastructure Engineering any defects in
installations leading to wastage of water, or leakage of electricity, etc.;
(7) The Allottees shall conduct themselves in a courteous and polite manner with the neighbours. If
any complaint is received on any Allottee (or a resident of the house provided to the Allottee) 
for being quarrelsome or indulging in objectionable activities (like entertaining undesirable 
characters, loud music, disorderly behavior, consuming liquor outside and public spaces the 
house), will attract an appropriate disciplinary action by the Competent Authority (including 
cancellation of allotment of the house); and
(8) Any produce of the fruit or flower bearing trees on Campus shall be the property of the Institute. 
 
8. Conditions for Allotment of House and Rules of Occupancy 
 
The Clauses given in this Section shall be applicable related to allotment and occupancy. 
 
The Conditions of Allotment are: 
(1) The Allottee is a licensee and not a tenant. The Institute reserves the right to terminate the license
at any time without assigning any reason. The intention of the parties to the license is that of 
creating a mere license and nothing more, and at no point of time can the Allottee claim to be 
the tenant of the premises allotted to him/her;
(3) When an existing resident of IIT Jodhpur campus is allotted another house on Campus, the
Allottee shall shift to the new accommodation within one month of the date of receipt of 
allotment letter, failing which the new allotment shall be deemed to be cancelled, unless an 
extension has been granted by the competent authority. Further, from the date he/she occupies 
the new accommodation, the older accommodation is deemed to be surrendered on the same 
day. If the Allottee fails to vacate the house on the day of occupying new house, the Allottee will 
be liable to pay Penal Rent cum License Fee that of the older accommodation for a minimum period 
of one month, with effect from the date he/she took possession of the new accommodation, 
even if the Allottee is eligible for Rent cum License Fee free accommodation ; and
(4) The Allottee who moves to the new house, shall give in writing in prescribed form (to the Office
of Estate) the details of date of vacation of old house and the date of occupying the new house.
The Rules of Occupancy are: 
(a) After an Allottee vacates a house, the Office of Estate, shall arrange to perform the maintenance
works and colouring in the house, and then declare the house fit for occupation;
(b) An Allottee shall give in writing his acceptance of the allotment within seven (07) days from the
date of receipt of the letter of allotment, failing which the allotment stands cancelled. The 
Chairman, HAC, may condone delay in giving letter of acceptance, which must be submitted 
within 15 days of the date of receipt of letter of allotment;

(c) The date on which the Letter of Allotment is sent by eMail to the Allottee shall be considered as
the date of receipt of the same;
(d) The Allottee, who accepts the allotment, shall take possession of the allotted accommodation
within 30 days from the date of receipt of the allotment letter, failing which the allotment shall 
stand cancelled on the 31st day, and he shall be charged Rent cum License Fee for a period of 
entire full month; and in case the allottee is already residing in an Institute House, then Rent 
cum License Fee will be charged for the allotted house for entire full month in addition to the 
House in which he/she is residing. Upon receiving the request from the allottee, for extension 
of period for taking the possession, the Chairperson, HAC, shall be empowered to grant 
extension up to 1 month and s/he shall be charged License Fee of allotted quarter, where the 
Allottee is out of station on official duty/ leave or on any compelling circumstances/ health reasons 
(with proper justification). Beyond the grant of extension period, if employee fails to take 
possession of allotted house the allotment stands cancelled. Any other special case may be 
considered by the Director;
(e) If an Employee rejects the allotment in writing, does not communicate his/her acceptance, or it
is deemed cancelled under these HARs, the Allottee shall not be eligible for consideration for 
another allotment for one year from the date on which the current allotment is made;
(f) An Allottee, who takes possession of a house, cannot surrender the same and seek the older
house; and
(g) The Allottee shall:
(i) Report immediately to the Medical Officer of the Primary Health Center of the Institute about
contagious disease contacted by any member of the family in the house and shall take all 
precautions as advised by the Medical Officer of the Institute;
(ii) Keep the allotted house and its premises in hygienic and safe conditions at all times; 
(iii) Park motorized vehicles only in the formally allotted parking space for the respective house,
and non-motorized vehicles only in the designated space adjoining the building of the 
house;
(iv) 
Allow persons authorized by the Office of Infrastructure Engineering (including the employees 
of Contractors) to access to the house during 08:00-18:00 hours (unless emergencies require 
access at other times beyond these hours), for the purpose of carrying out repairs to the 
water-supply, sanitary installations, electrical fittings, and fixtures (including furniture in 
select cases) in the house, as and when considered necessary;
(v) Report to the Office of Infrastructure Engineering, any damage or any defect in the building,
fittings & fixtures, or installations, immediately on noticing the same for necessary action; 
and
(vi) 
Allow the Security Officer of the Institute, the Medical Officer of the Primary Health Center, 
Officers of Sanitation and Public Health of the Institute, to visit the allotted house during 
specific hours (unless emergencies require access at other times beyond these hours). The 
Allottee shall receive instructions on matters of official work from the respective Offices and 
comply with the same.
9. Process of Allotment of House 
This Chapter presents the process for allotment of Houses on Campus.
9.1 Normal Allotment 
The normal process of allotment of houses shall be as below:
(1) Preparing the Vacant Houses 
 
Once a House is vacated by an Employee, the Office of Infrastructure Engineering shall undertake 
necessary repairs of civil & electrical infrastructure, painting and needed security related 
repairs. This shall be done as a priority, within a maximum period of 1 month. Once the above 
works are completed, the Office of Infrastructure Engineering shall communicate to the Office of 
Estate that said house is ready for occupation.
(2) Announcement of Vacant Houses

The Office of Estate shall make an eMail announcement of houses fallen vacant and ready for 
allotment; it shall float the availability of the house(s).
(3) Receipt of Applications
Employees desirous of seeking a house on Campus shall apply online indicating their 
preferences on or before the last date indicated in the announcement. Employees shall place 
only those houses on the application, which will be acceptable by them, if allotted.
(4) Preparation of Seniority List
After the last date for filing the application for house allotment, the Member-Secretary, HAC 
shall prepare a draft Seniority List, as per the eligibility criteria of respective employees, using details 
provided in the Application Form submitted by the employees and will put it up to the HAC after 
due verification from office of establishment and display the same along with the 
announcement for each category of vacant houses.
(5) Approvals for Allotment and Wait List
Subsequently, the Member-Secretary, HAC, shall prepare a draft List of Allotment, along with a 
sufficient Wait List. The draft List of Allotment shall be presented to the HAC for their 
deliberation and recommendations. After the meeting, the List of Allotment shall be prepared 
incorporating the inputs received during the meeting. The Director shall approve the same on 
the recommendation of the HAC.
(6) Allotment Order
The Member-Secretary, HAC (Estate Officer), shall issue the Letters of Allotment in the prescribed 
format in duplicate to the potential Allottees.
(7) Acceptance
The Allottees shall return a duly signed copy of the Letter of Allotment confirming her/his 
acceptance, within 7 days from the date of receipt of the Letter of Allotment and take possession 
of the house within 30 days from the date of receipt of the Letter of Allotment. The date on which 
the Letter of Allotment is sent by eMail to the Allottee shall be considered as the date of receipt of 
the same.
(8) Refusal to accept the allotment
In case an Employee refuses to accept the allotment of a house on or before the deadline of 
acceptance or rejection, the next person on the Seniority List shall be offered the house; the 
process will be repeated till all houses put for allotment are allocated or the entire Seniority List 
is exhausted, whichever is earlier.
(9) Cancellation of Allotment
(a) If an employee fails to accept the allotment of a House within 07 days or fails to take
possession of that House after acceptance within 30 days from the date of receipt of the 
Letter of Allotment without the grant of extension for possessing the house by the 
competent authority, the allotment of house to the allottee will stand cancelled and the 
employee shall not be eligible for another allotment for one year from the date of the Letter 
of Allotment.
(b) A house, once allotted, shall be occupied by the Allottee within 30 days from the date of
receipt of the Letter of Allotment, after duly vacating the previous house in which he/she 
was residing. Failure to occupy the allotted house within the stipulated time shall result in 
the automatic cancellation of the allotment. Further, the Allottee shall be debarred from 
applying for any Institute House for the next one year, except for transit accommodation.
9.2 Allotment Rules under Special Cases
A. Allotment on medical ground and physically challenged employees
As per Govt. of India Norms
B. Temporary allotment for marriage function and death related rituals only
i) 
Only un-floated vacant houses can be made available for the employees of IIT 
Jodhpur for the following purposes:

Pay Level as per 7th
CPC Type of
accommodation Rent
(GST included) Security Deposit
(refundable)
10 and above Type V Rs. 2,000/- per day Rs. 10,000/-
Type IV Rs. 1500/- per day Rs. 7,500/-
3 to 9 Type III Rs. 1000 /- per day Rs. 5,000/-
Type II Rs. 700/- per day Rs. 3,500/-
a) Marriage of self and son/daughter. In this case, a request should be made at least
one month in advance.
b) Death related rituals.
ii) 
A maximum of two (2) houses for a maximum period of seven (7) days may be 
allotted as per the availability of such houses.
iii) 
Rent, including Housekeeping Charges, (GST included) and a refundable security 
deposit will be charged in advance as given below in the Table. However, electricity 
charges will be charged as per actuals.
Table: Charges for the Temporary Allotment of Accommodation
iv) 
Damages, if any, the cost of the same will be recovered from the allottee, in full, as 
per actuals.
9.3 Discretionary House Allotment 
 
The Director, suo-moto, may allot 10% Houses under his discretionary quota to any eligible 
Employee of the Institute, or to meet the operational requirements of the Institute as may arise from 
time to time; and freeze the allotment of a house or a group of houses in anticipation of joining of 
new Faculty Members and Senior Officers of the Non - teaching Academic, Technical & Administrative 
Cadres. 
 
9.4 Allotment to Employees Married to each other 
 
The following norms apply to the Employee couples seeking a house on Campus: 
(1) Only one of them, either the husband or the wife, shall be allotted the house, except when they
are residing separately in pursuance of a valid order of judicial separation made by any Court;
(2) During the process of allotment, the applications by a husband-and-wife pair shall be considered
independently for allotment of houses; and
(3) When two Employees, who are occupying separate houses duly allotted to each of them, decide
to get married to each other, they shall surrender one of the houses within one month of the 
marriage. And, when one of the houses is not surrendered, the allotment of the house of the 
lower type shall be deemed to have been cancelled on the expiry of the said period, and if the 
two houses are of the same type, the allotment of one of these quarters, as the HAC may decide, 
shall be deemed to have been cancelled on the expiry of such period.
10. Maintenance 
 
This Chapter presents matters related to the maintenance, including upkeep and cleanliness, of 
houses on Campus.

The following are the conditions that need to be adhered to by the Allottees: 
(1) Once a house is allotted to an Employee, the responsibility for upkeep, maintenance and
cleanliness of the house and its premises lies only with the Allottee;
(2) The Allottee shall take prior permission of the Institute for any structural modification required
to be made towards fixing and maintaining air-conditioners, water coolers, electrical appliances 
or apparatus (which may require making holes, channels and ducts through the walls of the 
house). The request seeking permission shall be sent to the Office of Infrastructure Engineering, at 
least one month before the work needs to begin, if permitted;
(3) The Institute may consider requests for replacing small electrical items (at no charge to the
Allottee), subject to the same being rendered dysfunctional by the regular use of the same, as 
declared by the Office of Infrastructure Engineering; and
(4) The Allottees shall attract penal charges for dropping of garbage out of the collection bins
provided for the purpose, not segregating the garbage as advised, and littering the premises; in 
extreme cases, the Institute may consider initiating penal action, including vacation of house in 
case of repeated offence.
11. Unauthorized occupation 
 
A person residing in a house or occupying a garage allotted with the house shall be deemed to be 
unauthorized occupant, under any one, or the following circumstances: 
(1) The house, garage or both are occupied without allotment; 
(2) The Allottee has violated any of the Code of Conduct specified in these HARs; 
(3) A duly allotted house is retained beyond the allotted period without prior permission, or if the
permission is refused; and
(4) Penal Rent cum License Fee, wherever applicable, is not paid. 
 
On a complaint received against any occupant regarding violation under these rules, the occupant 
will be served a notice to offer his/her comments in writing on the complaint within seven (07) days 
from the receipt of such notice. Also, punitive actions may be taken after serving a Show Cause 
Notice to be replied to within seven (07) days from the receipt of such notice, in case of 
unsatisfactory reasons or response. 
 
A person declared to be an unauthorized occupant shall be liable to punitive action specified under 
these rules, besides any disciplinary action as per the Institute Act & Statutes/Rules applicable in 
case of Institute Employees: 
(1) If the person declared an unauthorized occupant, is not an Institute Employee, the Institute shall
take action as per prevalent law with the appropriate municipal & judicial authorities vested 
under Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorized Occupants) Act 1971; and
(2) If the person, to whom the House (or a part of it) is sublet, is also an Institute Employee, he/she
would be liable to disciplinary action as per Rules of the Institute. In addition, punitive action 
under these rules may also be taken against such persons.
For the purposes of these HARs, the service of notice shall be deemed to be sufficient for all 
purposes, if it is sent by eMail, once under registered post or issued by hand at the address of the 
house concerned. 
 
Such complaints along with the comments or replies, if any, made by the concerned occupant, shall 
be referred to the HAC. After considering the complaints and the comments, if any, the HAC may 
drop the complaint, if satisfied with the comments or replies. But, if the HAC is not satisfied with 
such comments or replies, then it shall conduct an enquiry and make its recommendation to the 
Director for appropriate action.

For violating rules of the Code of Conduct, the Allottee will tender him/herself liable to disciplinary 
action as per Rules of the Institute, in addition to other punitive actions provided under these HARs 
or any other law in force in the country. 
 
12. Punitive Actions 
 
The HAC on conducting an enquiry can recommend for suitable punitive action for unauthorized 
occupation or violation of general Code of Conduct applicable to the Employees under these rules as 
follows: 
(1) An unauthorized occupant will be liable to eviction by the HAC under Section 3 of the Public
Premises (Eviction of unauthorized occupants) Act 1971(Act No. 49 of 1971);
(2) For the period of unauthorized occupation, the person will be charged penal Rent cum License
Fee, which will be as per the norms laid down by the Institute from time to time. Such penal 
Rent cum License Fee shall, for all purposes, be deemed to be a charge on the salary. The 
Institute shall be entitled to deduct or set-off such penal Rent cum License Fee from Pension or 
any other amount due to the Employees due to him/her; and
(3) The Institute may disconnect the electricity, water and/ or Institute telephone, (if any provided
in the concerned premises) at any time after the service of 15 days’ notice as provided under 
these rules; and
(4) In addition to the provisions in these rules, the Competent Authority may take disciplinary action
in accordance with the relevant statues, rules and laws enacted by the Parliament of India.
13. Sub-letting 
 
No Employee shall sublet the whole or part of the house allotted to him/her. 
But, an Allottee proceeding on leave may accommodate in the house any other Employee (who is 
not allotted a house on campus) as a Caretaker, for the duration of the retention period as specified 
in these rules, but not exceeding six months in any case, unless explicitly approved by the Competent 
Authority. Further, during this period, the Allottee shall remain personally responsible for any Rent 
cum License Fee payable in respect of the house and for any damage caused to the house or its 
precincts (and grounds or services) provided therein by Institute beyond fair wear and tear. 
 
14. Disciplinary Action 
 
In case any violation of rules by any resident employee of IIT Jodhpur, it will be reviewed by House 
Allotment Committee and its recommendation will be put up to the Director: 
 
(1) The Committee should meet immediately on receiving the complaint on unauthorized
occupation of the house on campus, and on violation of general Code of Conduct applicable to the 
Employees and examine the same in the light of the charges made, notices issued by the HAC, 
the custodian of the house and the responses received from the unauthorized persons resorting 
to violation of general Code of Conduct;
(2) The Committee shall conduct an enquiry summoning the delinquent to depose and make
suitable recommendations in accordance with the Institute rules or The Public Premises (Eviction 
of unauthorized occupants) Act 1971, if found guilty; and
(3) The Committee shall submit its report along with its recommendations for disciplinary action,
including eviction of the premises as per the law in force.
15. Resolution of Matters 
 
This chapter presents matters related to the Resolution of Matters in the case of allotment of houses 
on Campus.

15.1 Appellate Authority 
The Director of IIT Jodhpur will be the Final Appellate Authority for all purposes on the decisions of 
the HAC, in case of any grievance arising out of the implementation and interpretation of these 
rules. The decisions pronounced by the Director shall remain final and binding.
15.2 Rules, Procedures and Matters not covered 
All rules and procedures and disciplinary provisions applicable in respect of Government of India 
owned public premises shall be applicable in respect of IIT Jodhpur employees and persons for 
utilising the official Houses and premises of IIT Jodhpur also, wherever specific rules are not 
framed.

S. No. Entitled House
Type Plinth Area
(m2) Rent-cum-License
Fee (Rs) Water Charges
(Rs) Common Area
Charges (Rs)
3. Type – IV(S) 147 1975 500 200
Type - IV 118-135 1765 500 200
4. Type - III 82-85 890 500 200
5. Type - II 75 670 500 200
Rent-cum-license fee and other fixed monthly charges of different types of
accommodations at IIT Jodhpur
Note: These are current rates of rent-cum-license fee and are subject to change from time to time.