SOURCE_PDF: 0e142aa7dc8f_Tender-for-Providing-Scrap-Disposal-Services-at-IIT-Jodhpur-Campus-639065792718297904.pdf

Date of Issue of Tender 13-02-2026
Pre-Bid Meeting 20-02-2026 (11:00 AM)
Last date of submission of
Bids 06-03-2026 (03:00 PM)
Opening of Bids 06-03-2026 (04:00 PM)
https://iitj.ac.in/tenders/ Page 1 of 16
Tender for Providing Scrap Disposal Services at IIT
Jodhpur Campus
NIT NO. IITJ/SPS/I/2025-26/Facilities/09 
DATE: 13-02-2026
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH-62, Nagaur Road, Karwad, Jodhpur – 342 030, Rajasthan (India)

https://iitj.ac.in/tenders/ Page 2 of 16
DISCLAIMER
The information contained in this Tender or subsequently provided to Vendors, whether in document or verbal 
or any other form by or on behalf of Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur (IIT-J) by any of its employees or 
advisors, is provided to Vendors on the terms and conditions 
 
set out in this Tender document.
The purpose of this Tender document is to provide interested parties with information that may be useful to them 
in eliciting their proposals pursuant to this tender document. This Tender document may not be appropriate for all 
persons, and it is not possible for the Institute, its employees or advisors to consider the investment objectives, 
financial situation and particular needs of each party who reads or uses this Tender document.
This Tender document includes statements, which reflect various assumptions and assessments made by the 
Institute in relation to the Contract. Such assumptions, assessments and statements do not purport to contain all 
the information that each Vendor may require.
The assumptions, assessments, statements and information contained in this Tender document, may not be 
complete, accurate, adequate or correct. Each Vendor should, therefore, conduct his/her own investigations and 
analysis and should check the accuracy, adequacy, correctness, reliability and completeness of the assumptions, 
assessments, statements and information contained in this 
Tender document and obtain independent advice from
appropriate sources.
Information provided in this document to the Vendor(s) is on a wide range of matters, some of which depends 
upon interpretation of law. The information given is not an exhaustive account of statutory requirements and 
should not be regarded as a complete or authoritative statement of law. The Institute 
accepts no responsibility for
the accuracy or otherwise for any interpretation or opinion on law expressed herein.
Institute, its employees and advisors make no representation or warranty and shall have no liability to any person, 
including any Applicant or Vendor under any law, statute, rules or regulations or tort, principles of restitution or 
unjust enrichment or otherwise for any loss, damages, cost or expense which may arise from or be incurred or 
suffered on account of anything contained in this Tender document or otherwise, including the accuracy, adequacy, 
correctness, completeness or reliability of the Tender document and any assessment, assumption, statement or 
information contained therein or deemed to form part of this Tender document or arising in any way in this Tender 
Stage.
Signature of the Vendor

S. No. Particulars Page
No.
1 Scope 4
2 Eligibility Criteria 4
3 Amendment of Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) Document 5
4 Submission of Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) 5
5 Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) undertaking 6
6 Opening of Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) 6
7 Duration of Contract 6
8 Security Deposit/Performance Guarantee 7
9 Termination of Contract 7
10 General Terms and Conditions 8
11 Penalty Provision 9
12 Dispute Redressal & Applicable Law 10
Annexure – I: Application Form 11
Annexure – II: Applicant Information Sheet 12
Annexure – III: Declaration format regarding blacklisting/debarring 13
Annexure-IV Bid Security Declaration 14
Annexure-V Financial Bid for disposal of scrap materials 15
https://iitj.ac.in/tenders/ Page 3 of 16
INDEX

S. No. Criteria
1. The age of Applicant/Tenderer should be in between 18 years to 60 years on the last date of
submission of tender;
2. Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) Undertaking as per Annexure-IV.
3. Application Form as per Annexure-I.
4. Applicant Information Sheet as per Annexure-II.
5. Bidder should not be blacklisted/debarred by the Institute or any other agency for a period of one
year from the last date of submission of this tender. An affidavit to that effect on Non-Judicial
stamp paper of Rs.10/- duly notarized must be enclosed with the technical bid in prescribed
format. The proforma of the affidavit is attached with the tender as Annexure – III.
6. Copy of Registration of the Shop/Agency /Firm issued by the Nagar Nigam/concerned authority of
the Rajasthan Shops and Commercial Establishment Act is must wherever applicable
7. The Agency/Firm/Bidder is required to submit a self-attested copy of PAN/GST/TAN/TIN
certificates whichever applicable;
https://iitj.ac.in/tenders/ Page 4 of 16
IIT JODHPUR having its campus of 852 Acres at NH-62, Karwad, Jodhpur (hereinafter referred to as 
the “Institute”), an Educational Institute of National Importance, having approximate strength of 
approximately 6000 campus residents invites offline Bids for “Tender for Providing Scrap Disposal 
Services at IIT Jodhpur Campus” at the Institute given in the Tender form. Non-compliance with 
specifications/instructions in this document may disqualify the bidders from the tender exercise. The 
Director, IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to select the item (in single or multiple units) or to reject any 
quotation wholly or partly. Incomplete tenders, amendments and additions to tender after opening or late 
tenders are liable to be ignored and rejected. The Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) document can be 
downloaded from the Institute website at URL Link: https://iitj.ac.in/tenders/index.php?id=Services
2. 
Eligibility Criteria:
All the Vendors / Agencies / Shopkeepers must fulfill the following eligibility criteria and submit 
the documents and the declarations (duly self-attested) in support of their claim along with the bid. 
The bids those are not meeting the Eligibility Criteria stated below and not accompanied with the 
requisite documents shall be treated as incomplete, hence be rejected.
Pre-qualification Criteria
(Documents alongwith their proofs to be submitted duly signed, stamped)
Note: - Any firm/Services Provider not fulfilling any of the above-mentioned criteria duly 
supported by the indicated documents shall be outrightly rejected and the bid shall not be 
considered for further evaluation.
a) 
A Committee constituted by the Institute shall evaluate the Notice Inviting Tender (NIT). The decision 
of the Committee in the evaluation of the Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) shall be final. No 
correspondence will be entertained outside the process of negotiation / discussion with the Committee; 
and
b) 
Any approach from the Vendor or his representative, trying to influence the decision on the Notice 
Inviting Tender (NIT), officially or otherwise, shall render the Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) liable to be 
summarily rejected. The Committee has been empowered to take the final decision regarding the Notice 
Inviting Tender (NIT).

https://iitj.ac.in/tenders/ Page 5 of 16
3. 
Amendment of Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) Document
At any time prior to the deadline for submission of proposals, Institute may for any reason, 
whether at its own initiative or in response to a clarification requested by a prospective Vendor 
modify the Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) Document by issuing an addendum/corrigendum. 
Any Addendum/corrigendum thus issued shall become a part of the Notice Inviting Tender 
(NIT) Document and will also be posted on the website of the Institute. To provide reasonable 
time to the prospective Vendors to take an addendum into account while preparing their 
proposals, the deadline for submission of proposals may be extended, at the discretion of the 
Committee, if required.
4. 
Submission of Notice Inviting Tender (NIT)
a) 
Pre-bid meeting will be held on 20.02.2026 at 11:00 AM at Conference Room W-01, IIT Jodhpur. 
The prospective Vendor(s) are requested to attend the pre-bid meeting on scheduled date and time. 
Technical requirements, Terms & Conditions or any other query related to this Notice Inviting 
Tender (NIT) shall be open for discussion for wider competition and competitive prices. The Pre-bid 
queries to be submitted on or before 16-02-2026 on the above given email id. No queries would be 
acceptable after the prescribed timeline. The Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) of the bidders should be 
received as mentioned in the appropriate manner by 06-03-2026 till 3:00 PM;
b) 
The interested parties may inspect the premises before submitting the response to Notice Inviting 
Tender (NIT).
c) 
Notice Inviting Tender (NIT)s in the name of the Minors or on behalf of the Minors will be 
rejected;
d) 
In case of Firms /Companies/Institutes etc., the authorized representative can submit the Notice 
Inviting Tender (NIT) application along with authorization letter;
e) 
The Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) form, duly filled in, along with the Demand Draft in original 
towards the Declaration and Conditions with signatures on each page and any other supporting 
certificates shall be kept in a cover, the Shop/ Nature of Business, Name and Address of the Vendor 
shall be indicated;
f) 
The response against Notice Inviting Tender (NIT)s received after the stipulated date and time will 
not be accepted. Notice Inviting Tender (NIT)s will be opened by the Committee. The Vendors or their 
authorized representative (only one) may present while opening the sealed covers;
g) 
Incomplete filled in Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) forms and unsigned Terms & Conditions will be 
rejected;
h) 
Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) forms with any pre-conditions or additional conditions other than the 
conditions prescribed and supplied by the Institute/Licensor will summarily be rejected at the time 
of opening of Notice Inviting Tender (NIT)s;
i) 
The Vendor shall sign on each page of Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) form. The name of the 
business/shop for which the Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) quoted shall be written in capital letters 
on top of the sealed cover. The sealed cover shall be submitted by the Vendor along with the Notice 
Inviting Tender (NIT) at the Office of Stores & Purchase of the Institute;
j) 
Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) can be submitted in Hindi or English; and
k) 
Vendor has to submit the Annexures I, II, III and IV duly filled and complete in all sense along with 
the list of minimum services along with their price (the list of indicative services)

https://iitj.ac.in/tenders/ Page 6 of 16
5. 
Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) Undertaking
The bidder shall be required to submit the Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) Declaration (Attached 
Annexure -IV).
6. 
Opening of Notice Inviting Tender (NIT)
The response of Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) will be opened on at 4:00 PM on 06-03-2026 in 
Conference Room W-01, IIT Jodhpur Campus. The Vendor or any of its authorized representative 
holding authorization letter who wish to be present at the time of opening of Notice Inviting Tender 
(NIT), can attend the Notice Inviting Tender (NIT). The Applicant/Representative of the Applicant 
shall produce self-attested copy of valid Photo Identity Card (PAN Card, AADHAR, Voter Id, 
Driving License, Passport, Ration Card). In case of date of opening of Notice Inviting Tender 
(NIT) is declared holiday, then the date of opening will be the next working day.
The Work order will be issued to the Highest (H1) price quoted bidder.
7. 
Duration of Contract:
The initial term of contract for providing scrap disposal services shall be One (1) year. Upon 
satisfactory performance by the Service Provider, the contract may be extended for up to two (2) 
additional periods of one (1) year each, subject to mutually agreed terms and conditions. Any 
such extension shall be on terms and conditions, including pricing, to be mutually negotiated and 
agreed in writing prior to the commencement of the extended term.

https://iitj.ac.in/tenders/ Page 7 of 16
8. 
Security Deposit/Performance Guarantee
a) 
The successful Vendor shall deposit a sum of Rs. 10,000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand only) as 
Security Deposit in the form of Demand Draft drawn as per the following:
Name of Account holder: Revenue Account IIT Jodhpur 
Bank Account No.: 3399101000631 
IFSC Code: CNRB0003399 
Bank: Canara Bank
b) 
This PBG shall cover the entire period of contract and shall remain valid for a period of 60 days beyond the 
period of contract. If the contract is further extended beyond the initial period, the PBG shall have to be 
renewed for the extended period also with a grace period of 60 days. This Bank Guarantee should be from a 
scheduled/ nationalized bank and will be held against in default in performance and violations of terms and 
conditions. IITJ will forfeit the security deposit if BIDDER fails to execute the order as per tender. This 
Security Deposit shall be deposited within 15 days from the date of intimation of the award of contract.
c) 
The Security Deposit shall not carry any interest. It is refundable only after two months of the completion of 
contract period. The Security Deposit is liable for forfeiture in the event of failure for breach of any 
condition/conditions of contract.
9. 
Termination of Contract
a) 
Termination of work order / Contract duly forfeiting the Security Deposit in the event of:
i. 
IIT Jodhpur is at liberty to terminate the work order /contract with one month’s notice, without 
assigning any reasons;
ii. 
The vendor defaults in payment of bid amount, then contract can be terminated and the security 
deposit will be forfeited; and
iii. 
Non-payment of Security Deposit and enter into an agreement in the stipulated period.

https://iitj.ac.in/tenders/ Page 8 of 16
10. 
General Terms and Conditions:
a.) 
Collection Schedule: The vendor is required to collect scrap on a monthly basis or as otherwise 
specified by the authorized representative of IIT Jodhpur;
b.) 
Storage and Additional Scrap Sales: The Institute will provide a designated area where the vendor 
can park their collection vehicles and equipment, either monthly or as needed. Residents will have the 
opportunity to sell their household scrap at this location. Items not covered under this NIT may be sold 
at a mutually agreed price between the vendor and the resident. The vendor must ensure that the value 
of these additional scrap items is not below the current market value. Any discrepancies in the rates 
charged to the IIT Jodhpur community may result in penalties in accordance with established norms;
c.) 
Delivery Schedule: The scrap lot is to be picked up on monthly basis as or when the readiness is 
informed by the authorized representative of IIT Jodhpur after acknowledgement of receipt of 
the Work Order / Acceptance Letter;
d.) 
As-is Where-Is basis All items shall be taken for delivery from the site by the successful bidders, 
with its faults and errors in description, if any. Neither can the sale be invalidated nor the bidder 
make any claim/ compensation, whatsoever, on account of any defect in description or deficiency in 
the quantity and quality. No plea of misunderstanding or ignorance of conditions put forth 
subsequent to a confirmation of sale shall be accepted;
e.) 
Inspection by Bidders In view of the ‘as-is-where-is’ condition, bidders are advised to quote rates 
only after inspection of items at the site. The bidder or his authorized representative may inspect the 
materials as per the inspection schedule, between 11 am to 4 pm (excluding lunch hours) on any 
working day at the location specified against each lot with prior permission from the contact person, 
as given in the tender details. The detailed description of all lots, including the list of spare parts, if 
any, is available at the site;
f.) 
Right to Reject all Bids The Institute reserves the right to accept/reject and cancel any bid, amend the 
quantity under any lot or withdraw any lot at any stage before or after acceptance of bid/issue of 
acceptance letter/sale order/delivery order/deposit of the full sale value by the bidder, without 
assigning any reason thereof and the value of such material, if paid for, shall be refundable. The 
seller shall not be responsible for damage/loss to bidders on account of such withdrawal at any stage 
from the sale;
g.) 
Taxes and Duties: Any statutory variations in the rate of taxes/duties are to be borne by the 
bidder. GST/VAT/excise duty rates indicated in NIT advertisement are only indicative and the actual 
GST/VAT/GST rates as applicable on the date shall be payable by the successful bidders directly to 
the seller at the time of taking delivery of materials. Form ‘C’ will be accepted. In order to avoid the 
imposition of penalty, the amount deposited by the successful bidder towards taxes and duties will be 
immediately deposited with the concerned tax authorities without waiting for the actual delivery;
h.) 
Security Deposit: If a bid is accepted, the bidder should have submitted Security Deposit within 15 
days of work order issued in form of Demand Draft/Electronic fund transfer, drawn in favour of the 
Director IIT Jodhpur. The scrap materials should be handed over to the successful bidder only after 
receiving the balance payment as in case of sale through tenders;
i.) 
Collection of Sold material: Collection has to be taken within 07 (Seven) working days (called free 
delivery period) from the date of information of readiness of the scrap lot for pick up as and 
provided by representative of IIT Jodhpur. If the purchaser is not able to lift the material within 
the free delivery period, he may request for an extension. Such extensions are generally granted

https://iitj.ac.in/tenders/ Page 9 of 16
after levying a ground rent @ 1/2 (half) per cent of the sale value per day. But, in some genuine 
cases, the levy of ground rent may be waived;
j.) 
Payment terms:
(a) In case of Institute Scrap, Full Payment should be made at the time of taking delivery without
adjustment of security deposit of the payment in favor through Demand Draft/Electronic fund 
transfer in following account:
Name of Account holder: Revenue Account IIT
Jodhpur Bank Account No.: 3399101000631
IFSC Code: CNRB0003399
Bank: Canara bank
(b) For Domestic Scrap Collection: Payment should be made directly to the households on the spot in
case of domestic scrap collection from the individuals residing inside the campus at the same rate 
specified in the financial bid.
k.) 
All risks to the buyer: The items shall remain, in every aspect, at the risk of the bidder from the time of 
acceptance of his offer. The seller will not undertake any liability whatsoever for the safe custody, 
protection or preservation after the sale has been confirmed. Lots are put up for sale, subject to change 
by nature’s wear and tear. No complaint regarding the quality or description of the materials sold 
will be entertained once the bid has been accepted;
l.) 
Delivery to Authorized Representatives: The material will be handed over only to the successful 
bidder or his authorized representatives against the presentation of the buyer’s identity proof. If the 
successful bidder desires to authorize a representative or an agent to accept delivery, the bidder shall 
produce a suitable power of attorney or authorization letter for each lot separately, duly attested, by 
a notary public authorizing his representative or agent to lift the material from the seller;
m.) 
Unremoved Materials: Materials sold but not removed within the specified date will become the 
property of the seller and Institute will have the right to dispose of such goods in any manner as he 
deems fit without any notice;
n.) 
Stock-Holder Responsibilities: The stock-holder should arrange for the deliveries to be affected 
according to the agreement and terms and conditions of sale. He should take every possible step to 
expedite delivery of the auctioned materials. The stock verifier should count, measure or weigh each 
lot or part of a lot after comparison of the description and quantity shown in the sold lot to ensure 
that only such kinds and quantities of materials as have been shown in the sold lot are being issued; 
he should sign the gate passes and issue notes in token of such a check. In giving, the material 
should be weighed on electronic weighing scales and the weight of each consignment should be 
recorded in detail by the stock verifier in his field book. All deliveries should be done through 
Electronic Weigh Bridges. All the Weigh Bridges should have valid certificate from 
Weight & Measurement Department of the State Government.;
He should sign the issue note after fully satisfying himself that entries made therein agree with those in 
the field book. The field book should be attested by the other representatives making delivery of the 
goods in token of their having accepted the correctness thereof;
The empty and loaded trucks or carts should be weighed and particulars of the gate pass issued 
recorded. The issue note and gate pass should be countersigned by the stock verifier; 
The loading of the sold materials should be done under the supervision of the stock-holder and be 
witnessed by other representatives. The stock-holder will be responsible for realizing the loading 
charges, if any, from the purchaser;
o.) 
Quantity Variations: At the time of delivery, the actual quantity may vary from the quantity 
mentioned in the delivery order. In case of excess available material, the seller reserves the right to 
retain material in excess of quantity in the lot at its discretion. The purchaser may be allowed to 
lift the additional quantity after making the requisite additional payment to the seller; and
p.) 
Seller’s Responsibility: The seller’s responsibility ends after the consignment has been handed over to

https://iitj.ac.in/tenders/ Page 10 of 16
the representative of the purchasers. The seller will be no party to any dispute that may arise after 
the loading has been completed.
11. 
Penalty Provision
In the opinion of the IIT Jodhpur, if the vendor fails to execute the agreed terms of the 
agreement/contract between IIT Jodhpur and the vendor to satisfaction of the institute, the Institute has 
the right to take the following actions;
a) 
Imposition of Fine: The authorized officer of the Institute may impose a fine for breach of contract as deemed 
appropriate. The amount and nature of the fine will be determined based on the severity of the breach.;
b) 
Forfeiture of Security Deposit: The Institute may forfeit the Security Deposit, either partially or in full, as a 
penalty for non-compliance or failure to execute the terms of the contract;
c) 
Termination of Contract: The Institute may terminate the contract by providing one month's notice to the 
vendor. The termination will be effective upon the expiration of the notice period.;
d) 
Termination with Forfeiture: The Institute may terminate the contract with the required notice period 
and simultaneously forfeit the Security Deposit. This action will be taken if the vendor fails to comply 
with the terms and conditions despite the notice.
e) 
Penal Actions by Statutory Authorities: If any statutory authority imposes penalties, fines, or other 
punitive measures to the bidder and the Institute is involved in such actions, the Institute has the 
authority to retain the Security Deposit until it is proven to the Institute’s satisfaction that the penal 
actions have been resolved. Such penal actions may also be grounds for the termination of the contract.
f) 
The Director, IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to accept the offer in full or in parts or reject 
summarily or partly.
12. 
Dispute Redressal & Applicable Laws
a) 
In all disputes and doubts or interpretation of the clauses or conditions applicable to the license 
or otherwise, the decision of the Institute shall be final and binding on the licensee;
b) 
The contract shall be governed by the laws and procedures established by Govt. of India, within 
the framework of applicable legislation and enactment made from time to time concerning such 
Commercial dealings/processing. Any disputes are subject to exclusive jurisdiction of Competent 
Court and Forum in Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India only;
c) 
The Arbitration shall be held in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation 
Act 1996 and the venue of arbitration shall be at Jodhpur. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be 
final and binding on both the parties;
d) 
Force Majeure: Any delay due to Force Majeure will not be attributable to the Vendor. Force Majeure 
events shall mean one or more of the following acts or events: Acts of God or events beyond the 
reasonable control of the Affected Party which could not reasonably have been expected to occur, 
exceptionally adverse weather conditions, lightning, earthquake, cyclone, flood, volcanic eruption or 
fire or landslide; Radioactive contamination or ionizing radiation; Strikes or boycotts (other than those 
involving the Vendor or its employees/representatives or
attributable to any act or omission of any of them) interrupting supplies and services of the Project for 
a period exceeding a continuous period of 7 (seven) days; An act of war (whether declared or 
undeclared), invasion, armed conflict or act of foreign enemy, blockade, embargo, riot, insurrection, 
terrorist or military action, civil commotion or politically motivated sabotage which prevents 
rendering of supplies or specified services by the Vendor for a period exceeding a continuous period of 
7 (seven)days.

https://iitj.ac.in/tenders/ Page 11 of 16
To
The IIT Jodhpur, 
Karwar, Jodhpur 
Rajasthan-342030
Dear Sir
Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Office of Stores and Purchase
ANNEXURE - I
Application Form
For
This is in reference to Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) Notification No. ……………., dated
………….regarding Providing Scrap Disposal Services at IIT Jodhpur located at Karwar Village, 
Jodhpur. I, hereby submit Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) in the prescribed format. I have read all the Terms 
and Conditions supplied along with the Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) Form thoroughly and understood the full 
content. Further, I hereby agree to abide by the Terms and Conditions stipulated by the IIT Jodhpur from time to 
time during the operation of my business on awarding the Contract for the same.
Thank you.
Yours faithfully
Signature of the Applicant
Full Name:
Permanent Address:
Mobile Phone No:

Sl. No. Name of the Sureties Occupation Signature
https://iitj.ac.in/tenders/ Page 12 of 16
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Office of Stores and Purchase
Applicant Information Sheet
1. Name of the Applicant:
2. Father’s Name of Applicant:
3. Nature of Current Business:
4. Age of the Vendor:
5. Full Address of Applicant:
6. Pan Card No.:
8. I offer the following sureties who have signed hereunder as Sureties.
Signature of the Applicant

https://iitj.ac.in/tenders/ Page 13 of 16
DECLARATION REGARDING BLACKLISTING/DEBARRING FOR TAKING PART IN NOTICE
INVITING TENDER (NIT)
I / We 
, the shopkeeper hereby declare that the shop namely
has not been blacklisted or debarred in the past
by Union / State Government or organization or Institute from taking part in bidding or Notice Inviting 
Tender (NIT)s in India.
Or
I / We 
, the shopkeeper hereby declare that the shop namely
was blacklisted or debarred by Union / State
Government or any Organization or Institute from taking part in bidder/tender Notice Inviting Tender 
(NIT)s for a period of
years 
w.e.f. 
to 
. The period is over on
and now the firm/shop is entitled to take part in Government Notice Inviting Tender
In case the above information found false I/we are fully aware that the Notice Inviting Tender (NIT)/ 
contract will be rejected/cancelled by Director, IIT Jodhpur, and Performance Security shall be forfeited.
In addition to the above Director, IIT Jodhpur will not be responsible to pay the bills for any completed
/ partially completed work.
DEPONENT
Name & Address

https://iitj.ac.in/tenders/ Page 14 of 16
Bid Security Declaration
I/we certify that If I/we withdraw or modify our bids during the period of validity, or if awarded the contract to 
us and I/we fails to sign the contract, or to submit performance security before the deadline defined in the 
request for bids document, I/we will be suspended for the period of time specified by the Institute from being 
eligible to submit Bids for contracts with the entity that invited the Bids.
Signature of the Applicant
Full Name……………………….

S.No. Items Minimum Rate
without GST
(Per Kg.) Quoted Price (Per Kg.)
without gst GST Rate
(%) GST
Amount Total
Amount
1 Cartons 13.5
2 Old Newspapers 13.5
3 Magazines 13.5
4 Books 13.5
5 Wooden Packing Materials 03.5
6 Rough Papers 05.5
7 Thermocol 0.10
8 Bubble wrap/foam covering 09.50
9 Plastic bottles/ containers/ bags/ wraps/
toys 14
10 Glass bottles/ Glass jars 02.50
11 Aluminium cans 156
12 Steel cans/ Old kitchen utensils/ Scrap
metal from appliances 42
13 Iron 20
https://iitj.ac.in/tenders/ Page 15 of 16
Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur
NH-62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur 342030, Rajasthan (India)
FINANCIAL BID FOR DISPOSAL OF SCRAP MATERIALS
Scrap Disposal Reference No.: 
Date:
Name and Address of the Party: …………………………………………………………………
• 
Quoted Price: Please fill in the quoted price for each item per kilogram based on your assessment or current market rates.
• 
Consideration Criteria: Only the items listed above will be considered for the technical and financial Evaluation of Expressions 
of Interest (NIT). Prices for these items will be evaluated for both technical and financial aspects.
• 
Additional Items: Rates for any additional items not listed above, which may be included for the sale of household scrap from 
residents, will be considered separately. Please note that only the listed items are part of the formal NIT evaluation.
• 
Minimum Pricing Requirement: 
The bidders are required to fill in their quoted prices based on the minimum rates specified. Any quote provided below the stated 
minimum rate will result in disqualification.
• 
GST Rate Discrimination: 
In case of any discrepancies in the GST Rate (%), the GST rate (%) will be finalized by IITJ, and this decision will be final. The 
total amount will be adjusted accordingly, and vendors must accept this.
• 
Only items listed in this format will be evaluated for financial considerations.

https://iitj.ac.in/tenders/ Page 16 of 16
Evaluation Criteria
1. Weightage Distribution:
• 
Sr. No. 01 (Cartons) – Weightage 0.76 (76%)
• 
Sr. No. 02–04 – Each item carries 0.05 (5%) weightage
• 
Sr. No. 05–13 – Each item carries 0.01 (1%) weightage
2. Evaluation Criteria: 
After applying the above weightage distribution, the bidder with the highest evaluated total price (H1) will be 
declared the successful bidder and will be awarded the contract.
Undertaking 
:
Certify that I am the duly authorized representative of _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
I have inspected the materials as per the details and agree to pay the amount quoted above. I have to make the 
appropriate payment to IIT Jodhpur and pick up the scrap materials as per the declared schedule.
Note: Please attach photocopy of ANY of the following documents:
A) Registration certificate of having registered with Local Municipal Corporation.
B) Registration certificate of GST
C) Certificate of incorporation
Please attach a photocopy of ANY of the following documents.
A) Photocopy of Aadhar Card. 
B) Photocopy of PAN CARD of the Firm/Proprietor.