SOURCE_PDF: 0ff9209a2313_Non-Teaching-Staff-Members-Syllabus-IITJ-O_E-II_-2024-25-Non-Academic-Staff-57-63877987.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Syllabus for the post of JUNIOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANT (Bioscience & Bioengineering)
(A) WRITTEN TEST
Cell & Molecular Biology: Cell types, organization, cellular organelles, central dogma in Molecular 
Biology, DNA, RNA, proteins, DNA replication, transcription, translation, regulation of gene 
expression, horizontal gene transfer, cell communication, cell cycle, mitosis, meiosis 
Microbiology: Types of microorganisms, microbial physiology and metabolism, microbial genetics, 
microbial growth and enumeration, applications of microorganisms 
Biochemistry: chemicals of life, water as vital essence of life, macromolecules carbohydrates, fats, 
proteins, lipids, enzymes, enzyme kinetics, enzyme regulation, metabolism, catabolism, anabolism, 
glycolysis, TCA cycle, oxidative phosphorylation 
Immunology: Innate and adaptive immune systems and their components, Antibody-antigen 
interactions, serodiagnosis, recent knowledge and applications concerning immunity to various 
infections 
Basic statistics: Sampling and its Techniques; Sample Mean, Median, Mode Variance; Random 
Samples and Random Numbers, Sample SD, SEM; Idea of Significance, Correlation of Measurements, 
and Significance Tests., 
Molecular diagnosis: PCR, RT-PCR, vectors, primer designing, ELISA, Bioethics, biosafety for 
disposal of laboratory materials (microbes, animal and plant tissues), Cell culture (Animal, Human, 
Microbial), Cell quantification techniques, flow cytometry, cell enumeration, assessment of cell death
(B) SKILL TEST
1. Laboratory safety considerations 
2. Operation of autoclave 
3. Reagent & Buffer preparation 
4. Slide preparation for Microscopy 
5. Uses of various microbiological and mammalian cell culture media 
6. Dilution plating 
7. Measuring enzyme activity 
8. Enumeration of microbial culture by haemocytometer. 
9. Extraction of Biomolecules from various sources 
10. Quantification of Biomolecules 
11. Separation methods for Biomolecules 
12. Recombinant DNA technology 
13. Principles of Microscopy (light and fluorescence) 
14. Basic spectroscopic techniques 
15. Principles of PCR: Endpoint and real time
Other general skills for trade test 
1. Practical knowledge (including safe handling) of analytical devices 
2. Analysis of Equipment technical specifications 
3. General equipment maintenance & usage logging 
4. Annual maintenance and calibration of equipment 
5. Maintenance of consumable stocks 
6. Effective oral & written communication skills 
7. General knowledge & aptitude 
8. Basic computer knowledge and effective usage of Microsoft office 
9. Laboratory management 
10. Installation & maintenance of software