SOURCE_PDF: 10c5b06e46cc_News-Reporting-Details-MTechPhD-Dual-Degree-AY-20242025-638769593551344470.pdf

Date Reporting Time Venue
Written
Test/Interview
06-07 June 2024 9:00 AM Mechanical Engineering Department,
IIT Jodhpur, Nagaur Road, Karwar,
Jodhpur 342030
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur 342037, INDIA
Reporting Details for Written Test and Interview
All the candidates shortlisted for Written Test/Interview for Admission in M.Tech.-Ph.D Dual Degree of the 
Department of Mechanical Engineering are hereby requested to appear for a written test and/or interview 
at IIT Jodhpur as per the following schedule:
Please note the following:
(1) 
Shortlisted candidates must report on time for the written test and interview.
(2) 
The written test will consist of two sections; 
Section I: General Aptitude and Mathematics 
Section II: Domain Specific, i.e. (a) Thermofluids Engineering (b) Advanced Manufacturing (c) 
Mechanical Design
(3) Any request to change the date for the written test and interview will not be entertained. 
(4) Shortlisted candidates are advised to visit the department’s web page before the interview: 
 (Link for department website: http://iitj.ac.in/department/index.php?id=me) 
(5) Shortlisted candidates are advised to visit the department faculty profile and their web pages before
the interview. (Link for department faculty members:
http://iitj.ac.in/department/index.php?dept=me&id=faculty_members) 
(6) Shortlisted candidates must produce the following documents (hard copy) at the time of the written
test and interview for verification:
i. 
Copy of application (duly signed)
ii. 
Passport-size photograph
iii. 
Photocopies of mark sheets and degree certificates
iv. 
Valid GATE, NET, CSIR, UGC, NBHM or equivalent scorecard
v. 
Copy of the valid reserved category certificate in a prescribed format
vi. 
NOC and Experience certificate for part-time online/external candidates
(7) The Institute reserves the right to withdraw the admission in case the candidate DOES NOT fulfil the
minimum qualification/required percentage of marks in the qualifying examination or supplies any 
false information.
(8) Please note that this call is merely a request for a written test/interview and in any way does not
guarantee admission for M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Program at IIT Jodhpur.
(9) In case of any queries, please write to office_me@iitj.ac.in or call +91 291 2801502.