SOURCE_PDF: 11c966a9815d_Placement-Brochure-638733086428767139.pdf

I N D I A N I N S T I T U T E O F T E C H N O L O G Y
PLACEMENT
BROCHURE

From the Director’s Desk 1
Message from the Head 2
Placement Chair Message 3
SoLA Vision and Mission 4
Faculty 5
Academic Programs at SoLA: An Overview 6
Msc. Computational Social Sciences 7
MSc CSS Curriculum 8
Competencies & Job Profiles 9
Industry Testimonials on MSc CSS 10
MSc CSS Batch Profile 12
Doctoral Program 14
CoE on Arts and Digital Immersion (ADI) 15
Academic and Research Facilities 16
Industry Connect Team 18
Career Preparatory Program 19

Greetings from IIT Jodhpur!
It is my pleasure to introduce the School of Liberal Arts (SoLA), the new avatar of the
Department of Humanities and Social Sciences (HSS), IIT Jodhpur. SoLA’s vision has been
conceptualized keeping in mind IITJ’s Vision Statement, which is to become ‘a future- driven
institute for nurturing excellence of thought; creating, preserving, and imparting knowledge;
and using transformational technologies/ interventions with a multidisciplinary approach for
responding to societal challenges and aspirations’.
SoLA has been founded on the principle that quality education in the Liberal Arts is a primary
requisite for solving the multidimensional challenges that our current and future generations
face. In operationalizing this core principle, the teaching, research and industry-connect seeks
to recognize and amplify the disciplinary intersections between the Creative Arts, Humanities,
Social Sciences, Natural Sciences and Technologies. The recently created MSc in
Computational Social Sciences (MSc CSS) is an example of the attempt to create novel
teaching programmes in emerging and transdisciplinary areas which are also responsive to
the needs of industry.
I invite you to be part of this exciting journey and to meet and interact with our bright students
who, I am sure, will exceed your expectations and justify the confidence of recruiters in the
knowledge, skills and sensibilities of IITJ graduates.
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury
Director
IIT Jodhpur

I am delighted to invite you to learn more about the School of Liberal Arts (SoLA), IIT Jodhpur
and its students as part of the placement process. The School of Liberal Arts (SoLA), which was
established in 2022, evolved from the Department of Humanities and Social Sciences (HSS),
which had its inception in the year 2015. This is a critical milestone for a young department and
represents our consistent improvement in academics and research. In accordance with the
future-driven vision of IIT Jodhpur, the change in name signifies a change in orientation. The
newly established School promotes the idea of transformation by breaking the traditional
barriers 
between 
disciplines, 
and 
through 
multidisciplinary, 
transdisciplinary 
and
interdisciplinary means, making an active intervention that will strengthen the existing research
ecosystem of the institute.
Through the courses and programs offered by our School, we encourage students to become
professionals whose practice and research bridge the gaps between the humanistic, the social,
the environmental, and the technological domains. SoLA’s flagship program is the two-year
MSc in Computational Social Sciences (CSS) with a specialization in two tracks –
Computational Economics and Computational Sociology. To promote a more nuanced
dialogue between STEM and social sciences, the school also offers interdisciplinary cross-
institute courses for engineering students at undergraduate, graduate and doctoral levels. Our
doctoral students undertake innovative and important research in diverse disciplines such as
Philosophy, Psychology, Sociology, Film Studies, Literary Studies, Linguistics, Cultural Studies,
Public Health and other interdisciplinary areas.
The faculty of our school are distinguished academics, with rich intellectual capital who
combine academic excellence with pedagogical innovations that represent their dedication
and commitment to the vision of the School and IIT Jodhpur. We have already also started a
Center for Excellence in Arts and Digital Immersion (ADI), which explores intersections between
art and digital technologies. Our faculty were also involved in the creation of a Joint Certificate
Course on Digital Healthcare System, which is offered by IIT Jodhpur and AIIMS Jodhpur.
The ethos of the School seeks to foster humanitarian values, diversity, inclusiveness, a passion
for learning and building a culture of excellence in education and research. I am sure that our
students will set new standards and open new frontiers in every field that their professional
trajectory will open.
Dr. Farhat Naz
Associate Professor of Sociology
Head, School of Liberal Arts

The School of Liberal Arts (SoLA) is an academic unit that evolved into a school from a department
in 2022. This evolution is guided by the core defining feature of IIT Jodhpur, i.e., multidisciplinarity
and interdisciplinarity.
The evolution is a well-planned conscious decision; therefore, from the year 2022 itself, the school
started MSc in Computational Social Science and launched another Master of Design (MDes) in
2023. The academic programs of SoLA are based on the core capacities of the Institute in different
domains, including technical, science, social sciences, humanities, management, design, and
innovation ecosystem. Thus, the students have the scope to learn from experts.
The vibrant culture of the school and the Institute exposes students to diverse opportunities to
develop technical and soft skills. At SoLA, we aim to be at the forefront of liberal arts and imbibe the
value of socially relevant, academically rigorous, and technically sound education.
Dr. Ankita Sharma
Associate Professor of Psychology
Placement Chair (SoLA)
C H A I R M E S S A G E

The vision of School of Liberal Arts (SoLA) is to emerge as a forerunner in Liberal Arts
education. The SoLA seeks to break the silos created by disciplinary boundaries and to
reimagine the educational structure through an open approach. We strive to equip and
enable students for the challenge of the future, while turning them into global citizens and
able thinkers with an awareness of the needs and demands of contemporary society.
The goals of SoLA include:
1. To engage in foundational as well as socially relevant and benevolent research in the
areas of Liberal Arts
2. To aid and guide the technologies developed to bring solutions for constructive changes
in society and human life
3. To contribute towards nation-building
4. To enable and equip students to contribute to future societal needs
5. To formulate a sustainable financial plan that may create value for the organization
V I S I O N & M I S S I O N
S0LA VISION

Dr. Gurujegan
Murugesan
Assistant
Professor
Prof. Nimish Vohra
School of Management and
Entrepreneurship
Dr Dweepobotee Brahma
School of AI & Data Science.
One of the strengths of the School of Liberal Arts is the intellectual capital represented by the
distinguished academics who are the core faculty. Major research groups in the department
are focused along the following disciplinary/ interdisciplinary tracks:
Dr. Farhat Naz
Associate Professor
(Head of
the School of Liberal Arts)
PHILOSOPHY 
SOCIOLOGY
PSYCHOLOGY 
ECONOMICS
LITERATURE, LINGUISTICS AND CULTURAL STUDIES
Dr. Rachel Philip
Assistant
Professor
Prof. Chhanda Chakraborti
Visiting
Professor
Dr. Ankita Sharma
Associate
Professor
Dr. Vidya
Sarveswaran
Associate
Professor
Dr. Parichay
Patra
Assistant
Professor
Dr. Ruhi Sonal
Assistant
Professor
Dr. Akanksha
Choudhary
Assistant
Professor
Dr. Prasenjeet Tribhuvan
Assistant
Professor
Dr. George K.
Associate
Professor
Dr. V. Harinaryanan
Associate
Professor
Dr. Suman Dhaka
Assistant
Professor
Dr. Alok Ranjan
Assistant
Professor
Dr. Gopakumar
Assistant
Professor
Dr. Tonisha
Guin
Assistant
Professor
Dr. Natasa
Thoudam
Assistant
Professor
Dr. Sridevi D.
Assistant
Professor
Dr. Kanak
Yadav
Young Faculty
Associate
Dr. Anupama
Mohan
Associate
Professor
AFFILIATE FACULTY

Preparatory Courses,
Non-graded Courses like Technical Communication, Professional Ethics etc.,
Bouquet Courses
Undergraduate Courses:. The School of Liberal Arts offer IIT undergraduates a holistic and self-
reflective education, making them suitable for a changing global education and work ecosystem
where disciplinary boundaries perish and interdisciplinarity emerges as the new norm. To achieve
that, SoLA offers
which introduce undergraduates to various fields and topics in the Humanities and Social Sciences
as well as Open Electives.
Post-Graduate Programs: SoLA’s flagship program is two-year MSc in Computational Social
Sciences (CSS) with specialization in Mathematical and Computational Economics and
Computational Sociology. Another post-graduate program that will soon be launched is the Masters
in Design (MDes), a first-of-its-kind program in any IIT, which will focus on the areas of
AR/VR/MR/XR/Immersive Media and its associated fields such as gaming, visual effects, animation
and comics.
Doctoral Program: The School of Liberal Arts offers a Ph.D. Programme in diverse disciplines including
Philosophy, Psychology, Sociology, Film Studies, Literary Studies, Linguistics, Cultural Studies, Public
Health and other interdisciplinary areas.

know how to use data-driven tools and approaches for social science queries
have a good theoretical understanding of the intricacies of social systems
are proficient in handling social data for practical applications
have research-oriented thinking without traditional disciplinary or methodological constraints.
Our MSc in Computational Social Sciences (CSS program) is designed to provide students with a
comprehensive understanding of the fundamentals of social sciences and how these intersect with
computational methods. This provides them with the ability to understand and address real-world
problems in these domains.
Our highly-skilled graduates are equipped with theoretical, technical, and application-oriented
knowledge, so that they:
S O C I A L S C I E N C E S ( C S S )

M S C C S S C U R R I C U L U M
In their second year, students will be able to specialize in: (1) Mathematical and Computational
Economics [or] (2) Computational Sociology (3) A Guided Curated Option for those who would
like to opt for courses from both streams.
The final semester of the course requires students to undertake a compulsory project at a relevant
business / company / industry; or, at an academic organization.
We provide/create ample room for the students to analyze, apply, and construct academically-
industrially sound models so they graduate as dexterous professionals, primed with both
competence and confidence!
COURSES
In the first year, students are exposed to introductory papers intersecting social science and
computational methods (including Statistics, Programming in R, Machine Learning, Data
Visualization etc.). These are aimed at preparing students to undertake tasks in data analytics and
to derive insights.

C O M P E T E N C I E S &
Analytical abilities and experience in data analysis and interpretation
Familiarity with Estimation Techniques, Programming Languages, Machine Learning and Data
Visualization
Ability to draw the interconnections between various socio-economic factors while framing,
estimating and evaluating analytical frameworks in domains like policy analysis, financial
Effective problem-solving, collaboration and communication skills
CORE COMPETENCIES OF OUR STUDENTS
Data Analytics
Economic Analysis & Advisory
Impact Assessment & Evaluation
Public Policy & Development
Business Intelligence
Management Consulting
Social Impact Consulting
JOB PROFILES
Following are some of the multiple industry domains that can be catered to with the diverse skillset
developed in this course:

Human society has always been an interesting and intriguing field of study
owing to the complex interactions of different players there. While
traditionally theoretical approaches and social experiments were more
prominent, in recent times data-driven and computational analyses are
becoming increasingly popular. The two seemingly different scientific
disciplines based on society and computers respectively have turned out to
be complementary and symbiotic in their evolution resulting in the
emergence of the field of computational social science (CSS). With the latest
surge in the proliferation of artificial intelligence and data-driven
technologies, the field of CSS is changing in a very interesting way, holding
boundless potential for the future.
In recent years and decades, both human society and behaviour have been
undergoing tumultuous changes owing to the increasing proliferation of
digital tools and technologies. Their usage has become omnipresent across
all spheres of social and interpersonal interactions resulting in the evolution
of almost all social phenomena. Mobile phones, social networks, and AI-
enabled generative text/image/video/speech tools are bringing in new
facets which require new ways to analyze social phenomena. Secondly, with
the constant rise of increased computational power and easy access to
sophisticated tools for descriptive, predictive, and prescriptive analytics - like
any other field, social science has become more data-driven. These tools
have made conducting large-scale studies feasible and efficient, compared
to what social science researchers could have done in the past. Analogously,
data and AI researchers are drawing inspiration from important and
interesting social challenges for their research. The growing interplay of
these two disciplines has been making CSS an increasingly and truly
interdisciplinary and exciting field of study and research.
Dr. Shourya Roy
Senior Research Director, Flipkart,
President, ACM SIGKDD (India Chapter)
ACM Distinguished Member
T E S T I M O N I A L S F R O M

The Computational Social Science program seems to touch upon some of
the most relevant aspects of how individuals work in cross functional
setups and how teams can be more effective. Firms are investing to
ensure engagement, efficiency and growth a lot, and at the heart of it, are
individuals who have scope to understand and work better with each
other. This program will enable students to understand the complexities
involved and apply theoretical knowledge (across Analytics, ML,
Economics, etc.) to improve overall functioning.
Mr. Deepkumar Verma
Principal Group Product Manager (GPM)
Microsoft Teams
T E S T I M O N I A L S
F R O M I N D U S T R Y
As the world goes through a rapid digital transformation, we see an
increasing number of services getting digitalized, thereby generating
humongous amounts of digital data about people and society. This
naturally creates a huge demand for computational social scientists who
are trained in computational techniques for analyzing large datasets that
can unlock insights about people, their choices, opinions and states of mind,
both as individuals as well as in the context of their social environment.
These insights are likely to play increasingly important roles in predictive
and prescriptive decision making for a knowledge society that can cater to
the diversity and equality of its members.
Dr. Lipika Dey
Chief Scientist
Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) Research & Innovation

Manya Khanna
Aniket
Iltefat Ahmad Alhaque Jami
Niharika Maiti
Education: Bachelors in Economics (Research); Minor in Design
Research Interests: Behavioral economics, Environmental Economics,
Sociology
B A T C H P R O F I L E
The present batch of students in MSc in CSS program has 8 students from diverse backgrounds
including economics, political science and computer science. This group represents a talented pool
of potential candidates who bring a strong combination of skills and experiences to the table,
making them well-suited for a variety of roles and challenges.
Education: B.A Political Science & Geography
Education: B.A(Honours) Business Economics
Education: B.A (Honours) Economics
Research Interests: Public Administration, Policy Studies, Political Sociology,
International Relations, Resource Management , Risk Management and Strategic
Planning
Research Interests: Econometrics, Computational Economics, Game Theory, Social
Network Analysis, Machine Learning, Data and Artificial Intelligence
Research Interests: Econometrics, Computational Economics, Data
Analytics, Game Theory, Responsible AI, UX design and research,
Machine Learning

Raashid Yaseen Shah
Shubhi Verma
Shyan Pal
Ratikant Dehury
Education: B.A (Honours) Economics
Education: Bachelors in Computer Applications
Education: B.A (Honours) Business Economics
Education: Bachelors in Management Studies
Research Interests: Computational Economics, Development Economics,
Game Theory, Social and Economic Networks, Machine Learning
Research Interests: AI & ML, Data Analytics, Data Science
Research Interests: Microeconomics, Development Economics, Environmental
Economics, Artificial Intelligence
Research Interests: Machine Learning & AI, Development Sociology, Social &
Business Analytics, Management Consulting
B A T C H P R O F I L E

The rigorous program seeks to develop outstanding researchers who have a deep understanding of the
theoretical and practical aspects in their areas of enquiry. The kind of training that our scholars receive
equips them for various careers including those in academics, research and industry.
The School of Liberal Arts (SoLA) offers a Ph.D. Program in diverse disciplines including Philosophy,
Psychology, Sociology, Film Studies, Literary Studies, Linguistics, Cultural Studies, Public Health and other
interdisciplinary areas.

This newly established Center within SoLA explores the intersections between art and digital technologies,
such as art analytics, content development for the newer art forms, social history and sociological analysis
of the newer art forms
By digital immersion, it refers to the merger of the physical world with the digital world of data. Digital
immersion will include digitalization of arts, use of technologies such as Virtual Reality (VR), Augmented
Reality (AR), Mixed reality (MR), Extended reality (XR) to create an enhanced environment for art
appreciation or art experience, digital gaming.
O N A R T A N D D I G I T A L
I M M E R S I O N ( A D I )

The CSS Laboratory is a high-impact research
facility within SoLA, equipped with software
which facilitates qualitative and quantitative
research in the Social Sciences. The major focus
is on themes in computational sociology and
computational economics. The lab is equipped
with software like NetLogo, R, SPSS, Tableau,
The Language Laboratory, located within the Central
Library at IIT-Jodhpur is designed to provide students
with an interactive learning environment for practical
training in English. The lab actively engages students in
exercises through its collaboration with SANAKO, a
company that produces specialized software to enhance
language learning for non-native English speakers. The
spatial layout and software facilities of the lab are
designed to maximize immersive language learning and
developing fluency and mastery of English.
The Psychology laboratory is a Positive-Cognitive
Psychology 
lab 
focusing 
on 
'OPTIMAL 
HUMAN
FUNCTIONING', which works towards understanding,
intervening and promoting well-being and excellence
of human beings. The laboratory is equipped with
tools and software like EEG Neurofeedback System,
E-prime, Speech recognition software, Wisconsin
Card Sorting Test, IOWA Gambling Task, Stroop Test,
SPM, NEO-PI-R, Emotional Intelligence Questionnaire,
and Social Responsiveness Scale etc.
LANGUAGE LABORATORY
PSYCHOLOGY
LABORATORY
COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL
SCIENCE LABORATORY
R E S E A R C H F A C I L I T I E S

Dr. Parichay Patra
Assistant Professor
Mr. Soumitra Poddar,
Founding Partner,
Strategic Services
Consulting
Mr. Bhupesh Dinger,
Director, Enrich &
Member
Board of Governors,
Dr. Akanksha
Choudhary
Assistant Professor
Manya Khanna, MSc CSS 
Niharika Maiti, MSc CSS
Ratikant Dehury, MSc CSS
Minal Mehta, PhD
Jyoti Sharma, PhD
Industry Connect, encompassing Placements, Internships and other
collaborations with Industry, is led by an internal committee comprising of the
following Faculty Members as well as Expert Industry Professionals.
Prof. Chhanda Chakraborti
Visiting Professor
Dr. Vidya Sarveswaran
Associate Professor
Dr. Rachel Philip
Assistant Professor
Dr. Ankita Sharma
Associate Professor
Dr. Farhat Naz
Associate Professor
(Head of the School of Liberal Arts)
Student Representatives
Dr. Gurujegan
Murugesan
Assistant Professor
Dr. Gopa Kumar
Assistant Professor
External Advisors
Faculty
Dr. Ruhi Sonal
Assistant Professor
Dr. Lipika Dey,
Chief Scientist
TCS Research &Innovation

writing customized resumes
corporate etiquette
interview skills
familiarity with participating in group discussions
leadership and teamwork skills
In cooperation with experienced professionals and experts as well as the Career Development Cell
of IIT Jodhpur, the School of Liberal Arts inculcates skills that are essential for its graduating
students so that they may strategize their career paths as they navigate the professional world.
The students of the School of Liberal Arts participate in many activities focusing on Career
Planning, Counseling, Research and Innovation, Industrial Relations, Entrepreneurship, Training, and
These help students to refine facets of their personality, verbal and written communication. This
preparation equips students with the following:
Other activities such as internships, participation in Winter School, interaction with industry
professional etc. also prepare students for engagement with relevant industrial problems.
Connect With Us
We invite you to learn more about our students and programs. For information regarding
placements, collaborations and industry connect, please feel free to reach out to us at
Our Social Media Handles