SOURCE_URL: https://iitj.ac.in/Electrical-Engineering/en/Microelectronics-Laboratory

Microelectronics Laboratory
Microelectronics Laboratory
Microelectronics Laboratory
Microelectronics Laboratory
This lab was developed to support the fabrication of discrete devices. It is mainly a research laboratory focusing on low cost devices and sensors for various applications. Currently, various devices such as Organic Field-Effect Transistors and Gas Sensors are routinely fabricated and characterized. Following is the summary of facilities of this laboratory ME lab
This lab was developed to support the fabrication of discrete devices. It is mainly a research laboratory focusing on low cost devices and sensors for various applications. Currently, various devices such as Organic Field-Effect Transistors and Gas Sensors are routinely fabricated and characterized. Following is the summary of facilities of this laboratory
Research Themes 1. Organic and Flexible Electronics: OFETs, Circuits, and Sensors: To reduce the detrimental impact of E-waste on the earth, electronic products need to be developed which leave minimum footprints on earth at the end of their lifespan. This technology offers advantages over inorganic electronics with the possibility of development of systems on unconventional substrates that can even be of biodegradable nature. Details of this work can be found on the page of FLAME Research Group 2. Thin-Film Device and Sensor Development: Sensors based on various materials including oxide metal semiconductors, and 2D materials such as MoS2 are being fabricated for various applications using gases and pollutants. Eventual aim is to develop integrated sensors which can be enabled for IoT applications. Other Sensors such as biosensors, and MEMS based sensors are also being explored. 3. New Material and Devices: Bandgap engineering and surface studies of semiconductors, AlGaN/GaN HEMTs, Compact Modelling and Simulation 4. Hybrid Electronic Sensor Technology: HESTECH Research Group develops hybrid
	semiconductor devices and sensors that synergistically integrate organic/inorganic
	semiconductors with advanced functionalities, driving the next generation of sensor,
	bioelectronics, and wearable technologies. Organic Electrochemical Transistors (OECTs) use
	ion-electron coupling in electrolytes for highly sensitive biosensing in healthcare and
	environmental monitoring. OECT offers low-voltage operation, inherent signal amplification,
	flexibility, and biocompatibility, ideal for wearable, point-of-care, and implantable electronics.
	Flexible & printed electronics, made using conductive inks and nanomaterials, enable bendable,
	lightweight devices for various physical and chemical sensing applications.
1. Organic and Flexible Electronics: OFETs, Circuits, and Sensors: To reduce the detrimental impact of E-waste on the earth, electronic products need to be developed which leave minimum footprints on earth at the end of their lifespan. This technology offers advantages over inorganic electronics with the possibility of development of systems on unconventional substrates that can even be of biodegradable nature. Details of this work can be found on the page of FLAME Research Group
2. Thin-Film Device and Sensor Development: Sensors based on various materials including oxide metal semiconductors, and 2D materials such as MoS2 are being fabricated for various applications using gases and pollutants. Eventual aim is to develop integrated sensors which can be enabled for IoT applications. Other Sensors such as biosensors, and MEMS based sensors are also being explored.
3. New Material and Devices: Bandgap engineering and surface studies of semiconductors, AlGaN/GaN HEMTs, Compact Modelling and Simulation
4. Hybrid Electronic Sensor Technology: HESTECH Research Group develops hybrid
	semiconductor devices and sensors that synergistically integrate organic/inorganic
	semiconductors with advanced functionalities, driving the next generation of sensor,
	bioelectronics, and wearable technologies. Organic Electrochemical Transistors (OECTs) use
	ion-electron coupling in electrolytes for highly sensitive biosensing in healthcare and
	environmental monitoring. OECT offers low-voltage operation, inherent signal amplification,
	flexibility, and biocompatibility, ideal for wearable, point-of-care, and implantable electronics.
	Flexible & printed electronics, made using conductive inks and nanomaterials, enable bendable,
	lightweight devices for various physical and chemical sensing applications.
HESTECH Research Group
Facilities Device Fabrication: Mask Aligner, Thermal Evaporation System, E-beam Evaporation System, Chemical Vapor Deposition System, RF Sputtering, Atomic layer deposition, Mask Aligner, Fume hoods Characterization: Keithely 4200 SCS, Probe station, Gas Sensing Characterization Setup, Hall Effect Measurement, Profilometer Sensor and Transducer Design and Simulation Tools
Device Fabrication: Mask Aligner, Thermal Evaporation System, E-beam Evaporation System, Chemical Vapor Deposition System, RF Sputtering, Atomic layer deposition, Mask Aligner, Fume hoods
Characterization: Keithely 4200 SCS, Probe station, Gas Sensing Characterization Setup, Hall Effect Measurement, Profilometer
Sensor and Transducer Design and Simulation Tools
(1) CoventorWare® Integrated software suite for designing and simulating  MEMS sensors and actuators.  A versatile FEM and BEM based tool set, has material properties database, creates or imports a 2-D layout and can build 3D models in conjunction with process flow information.  Important modules consist of Designer - Material Properties Editor, Process Editor, Layout Editor, Foundry Design Kits Analyzer Meshing, MemElectro, MemMech, CoSolve, Parametric Simulations, Visualization Advanced Solvers and Reduced Order Modelling (2) Mentor Graphics HEP Software: Tanner MEMS design (layout editor) and IC Design suite consist of Tanner L-Edit, S-Edit, T-spice , Eldo and Nitro SoC etc.
(1) CoventorWare® Integrated software suite for designing and simulating  MEMS sensors and actuators.  A versatile FEM and BEM based tool set, has material properties database, creates or imports a 2-D layout and can build 3D models in conjunction with process flow information.  Important modules consist of
Designer - Material Properties Editor, Process Editor, Layout Editor, Foundry Design Kits
Analyzer Meshing, MemElectro, MemMech, CoSolve, Parametric Simulations, Visualization
Advanced Solvers and Reduced Order Modelling
(2) Mentor Graphics HEP Software: Tanner MEMS design (layout editor) and IC Design suite consist of Tanner L-Edit, S-Edit, T-spice , Eldo and Nitro SoC etc.
Sputtering I-V Characterization Setup Thermal Evaporation Profilometer
I-V Characterization Setup
Faculty Memebers 1. Shree Prakash Tiwari Research Interests: Microelectronics, Organic Electronics, Microfabrication, Device Physics and Characterization eMail: sptiwari@iitj.ac.in Office location: Room no. 210, Department of Electrical Engineering Phone: 0291 280 1356 Web: http://home.iitj.ac.in/~sptiwari/
1. Shree Prakash Tiwari
Research Interests: Microelectronics, Organic Electronics, Microfabrication, Device Physics and Characterization
eMail: sptiwari@iitj.ac.in
Office location: Room no. 210, Department of Electrical Engineering
Phone: 0291 280 1356
Web: http://home.iitj.ac.in/~sptiwari/
2. Mahesh Kumar Research Interests: Device Technology, Electronic Materials, Micro and Nano device fabrications, Group III-V quantum structures by MBE, Growth of thin films and nanostructures of wide bandgap semiconductors, High-k dielectrics and new chemical materials like graphene III-V Si and wide bandgap semiconductors for MEMS,  MOS-HEMT Devices eMail: mkumar@iitj.ac.in Office location: Room no. 207, Department of Electrical Engineering Phone: 0291 280 1357 Web: http://home.iitj.ac.in/~mkumar/
Research Interests: Device Technology, Electronic Materials, Micro and Nano device fabrications, Group III-V quantum structures by MBE, Growth of thin films and nanostructures of wide bandgap semiconductors, High-k dielectrics and new chemical materials like graphene III-V Si and wide bandgap semiconductors for MEMS,  MOS-HEMT Devices
eMail: mkumar@iitj.ac.in
Office location: Room no. 207, Department of Electrical Engineering
Phone: 0291 280 1357
Web: http://home.iitj.ac.in/~mkumar/
3. Saakshi Dhanekar Research Interests :: Nano-sensors for societal applications, bio-devices, device development, MEMS, silicon technology eMail: saakshi@iitj.ac.in Office location: : EE 215 Phone: 0291 280 1373 Web: https://saakshi40.wixsite.com/mysite
Research Interests :: Nano-sensors for societal applications, bio-devices, device development, MEMS, silicon technology
eMail: saakshi@iitj.ac.in
Office location: : EE 215
Phone: 0291 280 1373
Web: https://saakshi40.wixsite.com/mysite
4. Harshit Agarwal Research Interests: Industry standard compact modeling, sub-5nm devices, steep-slope transistors, emerging memory technologies, high-voltage devices, analog/RF devices and circuits, neuromorphic computing eMail: agarwalh@iitj.ac.in Office location: Department of Electrical Engineering, Room No. 322 Phone: 0291 280 1376 Web: https://agarwalharshitblog.wordpress.com/
Research Interests: Industry standard compact modeling, sub-5nm devices, steep-slope transistors, emerging memory technologies, high-voltage devices, analog/RF devices and circuits, neuromorphic computing
eMail: agarwalh@iitj.ac.in
Office location: Department of Electrical Engineering, Room No. 322
Phone: 0291 280 1376
Web: https://agarwalharshitblog.wordpress.com/
5. Ajay Agarwal Research Interests: Microelectronics; Micro- Nano-technologies; Sensors; Micro-fluidics, Point-of-Care devices and Early diagnostics eMail: ajayagarwal@iitj.ac.in Office location: Department of Electrical Engineering Phone: 0291 280 1378
Research Interests: Microelectronics; Micro- Nano-technologies; Sensors; Micro-fluidics, Point-of-Care devices and Early diagnostics
eMail: ajayagarwal@iitj.ac.in
Office location: Department of Electrical Engineering
Phone: 0291 280 1378
6. Dr. Akshay Moudgil Research Interests: Nano Electronics, Hybrid Transistor-based Sensor Systems, Wearable & Printed Electronics, Biosensors & Bioelectronics, Photodetectors, Molecular Electronics, Device Fabrication and Characterization eMail: akshaymoudgil@iitj.ac.in Office location: Department of Physics, Room No. 306 Phone: 0291 280 1383 Web: https://sites.google.com/view/akshaymoudgil/home
6. Dr. Akshay Moudgil
Research Interests: Nano Electronics, Hybrid Transistor-based Sensor Systems, Wearable & Printed Electronics, Biosensors & Bioelectronics, Photodetectors, Molecular Electronics, Device Fabrication and Characterization
eMail: akshaymoudgil@iitj.ac.in
Office location: Department of Physics, Room No. 306
Phone: 0291 280 1383
Web: https://sites.google.com/view/akshaymoudgil/home
Contact details Room No.: The facilities are available in following room no.: 105, 219,211 Please write to one of the following for more details: sptiwari@iitj.ac.in , mkumar@iitj.ac.in
Room No.: The facilities are available in following room no.: 105, 219,211
Please write to one of the following for more details: sptiwari@iitj.ac.in , mkumar@iitj.ac.in
Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee
Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee
Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee
Institute Repository
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 13 Mar 2026 - 03:28 PM
Last Updated : 13 Mar 2026 - 03:28 PM
Last Updated : 13 Mar 2026 - 03:28 PM
###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!