SOURCE_PDF: 157dc66a94b2_Aasmaan.pdf

In this Issue
Page
Message from the Director’s Desk
3
Message from Dean, Student Affairs
4
Message from Chairperson, Student Wellbeing Committee
5
Your Path to Success, Calming an Anxious Mind
7
Trees of IIT-J, Artwork by Wellbeing Moderators
8
SWC Team Activities
9
Upcoming Events
11
Musings and artwork from IIT-J Community
12

Dear Friends,
An academic institute such as ours carries a tremendous social responsibility—
to not only fine-tune the intellectual potential of our students, but to establish
systems for their well- being to flourish. Their path is not easy; many have
struggled upwards from scarce opportunities, striving against all odds, and
braving cut-throat competition to reach here. They are on the threshold of
two worlds—the homes which they have left, where there was safety and
acceptance; and this new world of great potential but also fear of failure. 
It's not only our students who face challenges to their mental health. Faculty,
staff members and other campus residents also deal with stress levels that are
the unfortunate outcome of urban advances, especially technology—which
with all its advantages, can also lead to isolation, mechanistic relationships,
and a fragmented perception of reality. Clearly, the antidote for such
pressures is not to reject these advances. It is also not enough to just target a
few suffering individuals, when almost everyone is subject to complex
socioeconomic forces, making it a difficult world to navigate without support.
Therefore, our student wellbeing efforts have adopted a holistic approach.
IIT-J provides mental health support through individual consultation as well as
community-based outreach. Moreover, we conceive of wellbeing as fostered
by a diverse, inclusive and accepting campus culture in all aspects—be it
academic, social or personal. We actively encourage sports, cultural and other
community-based festivities for social connect. There is a focus on prevention.
Many problems can be intercepted by faculty, peers and other support
systems within the campus.
I would like to congratulate the Student Wellbeing Committee for bringing out
this Newsletter, as a means of expressing the sentiments of the entire campus
community. The SWC has also been organizing several events for greater
outreach. Since Mental Health is a universal human right, IIT Jodhpur will
continue to make its wellbeing-based initiatives available to everyone.
Wishing you all the best,
Prof Santanu Chaudhury.
Message from the Director’s Desk

Message from Dean, Student Affairs
Redefining Success: Fostering Well-being in Academic Institutions
Education transcends the confines of grades; it is about cultivating individuals equipped to
navigate life’s myriad challenges and opportunities. While the prevailing societal narrative often
ties success to an IIT education, emphasizing success to the detriment of all else is a limited
perspective. Acknowledging that academic accomplishments are pivotal, it is equally imperative to
champion the well-being of students, faculty, and staff for sustainable success.
Within the academic sphere, stress and burnout are no strangers. By integrating well-being
practices—such as stress management and self-care—we can counteract the detrimental effects of
chronic stress, proactively averting burnout. A more balanced educational approach contributes to
developing content, resilient individuals, fostering emotional intelligence, social adeptness, and
self-awareness. Far from being a diversion from academic triumph, well-being is its catalyst.
Individuals in a state of well-being are more engaged, focused, and adept at assimilating and
applying knowledge.
Initiatives promoting well-being foster a sense of community within an institution. A positive,
encouraging atmosphere thrives when students and educators champion each other’s health and
happiness. Robust, supportive communities are indispensable for both personal and academic
growth. As academic custodians, we bear the responsibility for those under our guidance.
Prioritizing well-being mirrors our commitment to our community’s physical and mental health,
extending beyond the realm of academic accomplishments.
In conclusion, well-being and academic success are not adversaries but interconnected, enhancing
the other. Elevating the importance of well-being in academic institutions is not an indulgence but a
necessity for cultivating a nurturing and flourishing learning environment. It is an investment in the
enduring success and happiness of our students, faculty, and staff.
Let’s embrace an all-encompassing educational approach that empowers individuals to excel
academically while concurrently nurturing their overall well-being. Together, we can foster a
culture of equilibrium, resilience, and perpetual learning within our academic community.
I congratulate the Student Well-being Team for this initiative. The newsletter will become a medium
to share our thoughts, experiences, and good practices to increase awareness and bring people
together.
Best of luck
Warmly
Ankita.

Message from Chairperson, Student Wellbeing Committee
The Student Wellbeing Committee (SWC) at IIT Jodhpur has been a key component
of the institute to ensure the mental and emotional wellbeing of students by
promoting their personal and academic development. The committee operates along
three primary aspects: Academic, extra-curricular, and personal. Academic support
provided by SWC includes providing information about academic programs,
facilitating efficient time management, and developing effective study skills. The
Extra-Curricular aspect of SWC promotes the development of talents in students
and encourages them to explore their hobbies and interests. The Personal aspect of
SWC provides a cushion against homesickness and supports students in adjusting to
the new environment, including addressing concerns and difficulties arising during
their stay at the Institute. The committee offers personalized guidance, psycho-
support, and confidential referral services to students. It coordinates with
YourDost, an online counseling and emotional wellness platform, and organizes
workshops on key issues faced by students.
Finally, the committee organizes events to encourage interaction among students of
different years, as well as staff and faculty members. Through its various initiatives,
the SWC strives to make IIT Jodhpur a home away from home for all students.
Through this newsletter, the team is making an effort to bring awareness about
wellbeing, showcase the activities and efforts made by the Counsellors and
Wellbeing moderators on campus and hear out from the IITJ fraternity about their
experiences and motivational journey.
Best Wishes 
Dr. Saakshi Dhanekar
Department of Electrical Engineering, IITJ.

Modest Joys
-Dr. Anjali Bhatia,
Counsellor, IITJ
Several months ago, I had this conversation with
a colleague, whose wife’s cooking skills made us
drop 
constant 
hints 
about 
wanting 
lunch
invitations to his place. He was bemoaning the
fact that no household help satisfied her. She
would invariably, end up doing it herself. “There
is no need for her to waste her time on
housework, when help is available. It tires her
out”, he opined. “Maybe it is not a waste for her?
During the lockdown, I surprised myself by how
much I enjoyed washing the dishes, cleaning the
house, and cooking. So I sort of do understand
where she is coming from. Since she is so good at
it, why should she not take pride in it?”
I hadn’t intended to turn around his way of
thinking—which, after all, is quite progressive. He
did not want his wife to be identified solely with
her identity as a homemaker. But like her, I have
also witnessed the beauty of the small,
seemingly-mundane moments of life—the delight
of trying out a new dish; tending to my house
plants; basking in the sun of approaching winter;
the meticulous satisfaction of putting each stitch
of embroidery; the swish of a paintbrush on
paper; the smell of freshly-washed clothes—and
so many more such ‘mental health breaks’ that
pull me away from bullet-pointing my career
achievements or earning social media clout
points. My relationship with my home, my kitchen
or my balcony becomes a living presence—a
reciprocal ‘investment’ of time, care and beauty.
Often, by purposefully excluding ourselves from
the treadmill of the outer world, we reconnect
with the inner child and experience the small but
valuable joys of missing out!
Counsellor, IITJ

Embracing Mistakes, Errors, and Failure: Your Path to Success
Akash Vishwakarma
Counsellor, IITJ
In the journey of life, mistakes, errors, and failures are the uninvited but necessary guests. They
are not to be feared or shunned, for they hold the potential for growth, resilience, and personal
development within them. As students, staff, entrepreneurs, or leaders, it’s vital to comprehend
that these experiences are not roadblocks but rather stepping stones on your path to success.
Mistakes are not indicators of weakness but rather symbols of your courage to step beyond your
comfort zone. They serve as invaluable learning opportunities that can lead to personal and
academic growth. When you make a mistake, don’t merely dwell on it; instead, reflect on what
went wrong and why. This self-evaluation process allows you to make adjustments and avoid
repeating the same mistake in the future. Every mistake is a stepping stone on the path to mastery.
Errors often accompany the pursuit of excellence. They are a natural part of any learning process
and should not be seen as signs of inadequacy. 
Thomas Edison, the renowned light bulb inventor, famously said, “I have not failed. I’ve just found
10,000 ways that won’t work”. This shift in perspective from “failure” to “learning” enabled him to
succeed ultimately. J.K. Rowling, the author of the Harry Potter series, faced rejection from
multiple publishers before finding success. Her story serves as a testament to the fact that failure
is not a dead-end it’s a stepping stone toward realizing your potential.
A growth mindset is the belief that your abilities and intelligence can be developed through
dedication and hard work. When you approach challenges with a growth mindset, you see them as
opportunities for self-improvement rather than as judgments of your abilities.
Be hopeful, resilient, and keep moving forward, knowing that mistakes and failures guide you
towards a brighter future.
Calming An Anxious Mind
- Zentangle art by Ms. Anjana Sunil
Student Wellbeing Moderator, IITJ
As therapists, we come across numerous lived experiences of individuals who might have gone
through loss, grief, trauma, abuse, violence, and many other sufferings, on a daily basis. As MHPs
how do we ensure that these stories don’t affect us deeply? Or is it that we have become numb to
these narratives? People often ask us, “Everybody comes and tells you about their problems, don’t
you feel overwhelmed?”
Well… the truth is, yes, sometimes it does get overwhelming, and we do feel distressed after
listening to certain experiences. Afterall, at the base, we all are fellow human beings, right? We
are no superhumans, neither we have any special powers to remain calm, composed and
unaffected during these times. But yes, we bounce back quickly. And there are a few things that
help us in doing that. It could be reflecting upon certain things through journaling, or relieving the
stress by being physically active, or soothing ourselves by listening to some good music. For me, it
has been art. Zentangle helps me slow down and feel grounded. In a way it also teaches me to
own my mistakes, and adjust to the imperfections that life brings in. It is like entering into a state of
meditative pleasure. We all have our own unique ways of taking care of ourselves. I have found
mine, what’s yours?

- Artwork by Ms. Nabeelah
Siddiqui
Student Well-being
Moderator, IITJ
- Artwork by Ms. Anannya Sharma
Student Well-being Moderator,
IITJ
Trees of IIT-J
- by Anannya Sharma
Student Wellbeing Moderator, IITJ
Every day, as I make my way to work, I
carry a cup of chai in one hand and an
umbrella in the other. On campus, I find
joy in walking everywhere, and over
time, I've developed a connection with
the trees that surround me. I genuinely
adore them. They are beautiful.
There's one particular tree on my way to
the PHC that has left a lasting impression
on me. Despite being completely dry, it
stands tall, adorned with a beautiful
golden, dry carpet of creeper. I find
myself admiring it every day. One stormy
evening, my concern for this specific tree
surprised me. I desperately wanted to
see it the next day, and wanted to see it
standing in all its glory.
To my amazement, the following morning
I saw that the tree had suffered partial
damage, yet I could see some green
shoots emerging. It looked beautiful even
in this state.
A part of me was sad to see that, but It
was looking beautiful that day too. I
guess, the therapist in me, immediately
called it healing. Do trees heal too? like
we do?
Emotional Health Alerts
Seek counselor inputs for
- Poor or excessive sleep
- Poor or excessive appetite
- Poor or excessive social contacts
Motivate anyone else around you to give up hesitation in meeting the counselor.
Let's together make the campus emotionally healthy
Prasad Gadkari
Student Counselor, IITJ
Zentangle art by Ms. Anjana Sunil
Student Wellbeing Moderator, IITJ

SWC Team Activities
The PG Orientation program organized by the SWC
PG team at IIT Jodhpur for newly enrolled students
promised an enriching month-long orientation that
would involve engaging sessions with various
campus teams.
Orientation for PG Students 26th July, 23
Counsellors’ Interaction with Parents
Counselor-parent interactions organized by the SWC
team offered an open line of communication for
parents to stay attuned to their child's mental well-
being, including stress, homesickness, and other
emotional challenges.
Campus Life- Challenges &
Healthy Boundaries (29 July,23)
Through this session, the wellbeing team was able to
hold a safe space for the students to open up about
the challenges and concerns that they are facing in
the campus, and also guide them with the possible
ways to overcome those challenges.
Harmony on Campus: Striking the College
Life Balance (11th August,23)
Extending the informal orientation initiative, a
seminar named aimed to address the various
difficulties encountered when transitioning through
different phases of college life.
Creating Hope through Action: An
Awareness Program (11th September,23)
An Awareness Program for SWC Student Team
members, on the occasion of World Suicide Prevention
Day, Team Counselling had organized an awareness
program to reduce stigma and promote helping
behaviour among the student team members.

SWC Team Activities
Attempted to address some of the common concerns
regarding both personal and professional relationships.
Why/Which Relationships Matter?
Personal and Professional (10th August,23)
International Day of Yoga (21st June 2023)
To commemorate the International Day of Yoga (21st
June 
2023), 
a 
spontaneous 
Yog 
activity 
was
demonstrated by Mr Akash Vishwakarma.
Threads of Togetherness: Building Strong
Connections (13th September,23)
A situational role-play exercise was conducted as part
of the Orientation sessions, to enhance solution-focussed
teamwork and bonding.
Reclaiming life: confronting drug abuse
As directed by the Ministry of Education to organize
various events during "Nasha Mukt Bharat Pakhwada",
the Counselling Team, under the Student Wellbeing
Committee of IIT Jodhpur conducted a Webinar to
promote awareness about drugs and their related
impact on the body, mind and overall social lifestyle.
Cycling Tour aligned with the Y20 theme 'Health,
Wellbeing, and Sports: Agenda for Youth'. This
initiative aims to promote a healthy lifestyle among our
esteemed IITJ community.
Cycling Tour (14th August,23)

The Wellness Circles are focused groups for long-term, regular
activities that promote different aspects of psychological well-
being. Each group will have a specific theme—such as embracing
uncertainty, 
exploring 
the 
self, 
and 
developing 
intuitive
awareness—and be facilitated by a Counsellor or Wellbeing
Moderator.
Upcoming Events
World Suicide Prevention Day is a global annual event each
year. The counselling team at IITJ would dedicate this day to raise
awareness and reduce stigma regarding suicide, promote help
seeking behavior among the students, and encourage open
discussions about mental health.
World Mental Health Day (WMHD)- 10th October. Each year,
WSPD & WMHD has a specific theme that highlights a particular
aspect of mental health. The events will be planned in detail
according to the themes. We are planning to conduct various
workshops and outreach programs to sensitize the students and
staff, and extend support to all those dealing with mental health
concerns.
Gratitude Day, the SWC counselling team comes up with various
activities that encourage the students to express their gratitude
towards all those who have played an important role in their lives.
Movie night is one of the most exciting events of the SWC, which
every student looks forward to. It would be an opportunity for the
students to come together, interact, have fun and feel relaxed.
Wellbeing Game night : A fun wellbeing game night will be
organized by SWC for the welfare of students event would
involve creative activities and fun games around mental health,
giving students a break from the usual monotony and promoting
wellness.
Yoga Sessions: Promoting wellness of mind and body, a series of
ongoing yoga sessions will be held by Mr. Himmat Singh at IIT-
Jodhpur. Nourish your wellbeing and contribute to a more healthy
lifestyle.

Look up at the clear sky!
- I. Vaisali
Have you looked up at the clear sky?
I know you are feeling down
Gray clouds forming in your mind
Feels like any moment you might drown
But here, take my hand. You'll be alright!
There are things you don't wish to recall
You try to smile, try to take a step forward,
look at the bright side and forget the fall.
Then you find the ground beneath tremor,
and fear you'll disappoint them all.
You don’t know the kind deeds you’ve done
Moments you made someone happy,
made some smile amidst their pain.
People show grief and anger, easy
But thank one? That’s quite seldom.
You are your own child.
Climb a tree, fly a kite, dance, spin.
When you do good, treat yourself fine.
When you make a mistake, forgive.
When it shines, look up at the clear sky!
Freedom
- Dr. Aradhya Giri
To all the humans, struggling to break
free. From a person, or a demon, or just
a memory. It's suffocating, I know, the
struggle to breathe. Like riding a bike,
with two scraped knees. Like a lock to
which you can't find a key.
To all the humans, struggling to break
free. Their side is fake grass, but you
wouldn't agree. How do I know? I've
been there, you see. It was all fun and
games, until the monsters came for me.
Now I realise, underneath it all, they're
just a nobody.
To all the humans, struggling to break
free. Take a leap of faith, as I count to
three. Plant a happy seed, rooted in
your melancholy. And before you even
know it, it'll transform into a tree.
That'll stay forever grounded, and
bloom heavily.
To all the humans, struggling to break
free. Give yourself a chance, and who
knows what you'll be? Being an
optimist, is a tough job, you see. But
faith is the answer to every difficulty.
Dear, dear human who struggles to
break free, I promise it'll be alright, you
don't have to flee.
Dear, dear human who struggles to
break 
free, 
perfect 
healing 
is
synonymous to facing reality.
Dear, dear human who struggles to
break free, I hope this helped, even in
the slightest degree.
Dear, dear human who struggles to
break free. You'll find your person, and
most fortunate they'll be.

Editorial Team:
Ms. Anannya Sharma
Dr Anjali Bhatia 
Mr Akash Vishwakarma 
Ms. Nabeelah Siddiqui 
Ms. Anjana Sunil 
Dr Saakshi Dhanekar
Please send us your
suggestions and feedback at:
Know more about us a

TEAM: STUDENT WELL-BEING COMMITTEE
Chairperson, Student Wellbeing: Dr. Saakshi Dhanekar
Committee (SWC)
Faculty Advisors: Dr. Indranil Banerjee, Dr. Prasenjeet Tribhuvan, Dr. Saptarshi
Pyne, Dr. Sumit Kamal
Counsellors: Mr. Prasad Gadkari, Dr Anjali Bhatia, Mr. Akash Vishwakarma 
Well-being Moderators: Ms. Anannya Sharma, Ms. Anjana Sunil, Ms. Nabeelah
Siddiqui
Student Heads
PG: Ms. Sarmistha Mazumder, Mr. Darshan S.
UG: Ms. Navlika Singh, Mr. Likhith Ayinala
Assistant Heads:
UG: Vasubhya Diwan, Keshav Maheshwari, Yuvraj Soni, Arun Raghav S,
Arukonda Vaishnavi
Anupam Singh Bhadouriya, Vidit Agrawal, Harshil Kaneria, Devang Shrivastava,
Nidhi Patel
PG:
Srinivas M V V, Maitreyee Sarkar, Hemant Shrivatsava, Komal Sharma
Student Guides 
PG: Abhijeet Rajak, Akash Singhal, Akhil Anand, Amritanshu Singh, Aniket
Sachan, Avinash Krishn, Avinash Kumar Chauhan, Ayan Dey, Bikash Dutta,
Deepak siwania, Deepanshu, Girish Pandey, Jatin, Meet Chaubsia, Jatin Kumar,
Mehendra Kumar Rai, Nikhil Kumar, Prarit singhal, Prashant, Praveen Kumar
Jangid, Priyanka Kumari Paswan, Sahil, Souvik Paul, Sumit Sahu, Sundari Manoj,
Tushar Tirtha Samrah, Vikas Yadav, Zeel Samir Doshi
UG: Devika Singh, Keshika Sharma, Mitali Agrawal, Samriddhi Jain, Avani Rai,
Shagun Suryavanshi, Lavangi Parihar, Chaital Ghan, Yesha Shah, Saanjali

TEAM: STUDENT WELL-BEING COMMITTEE