SOURCE_PDF: 1732cd2654d5_AR_2018_19_20_English_.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Annual Report
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH 65, Nagaur Road, Karwad, Jodhpur 342037

Copyright © 2019, Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur (www.iitj.ac.in). All rights reserved.
Institute Publications Committee 
Dr. Kamaljit Rangra, Visiting Faculty, Department of Electrical Engineering 
Dr. S. C. Bose, Advisor (Academics) 
Dr. Sushmita Jha, Associate Professor, Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering 
Dr. Puneet Sharma, Associate Professor, Department of Mathematics 
Dr. Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay, Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science & Engineering 
Dr. Kaamya Sharma, Assistant Professor, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences 
Dr. Kshema Prakash, Deputy Librarian

Preface i
Vision & Mission ii
Contents
Board of Governors 
2
Finance Committee 
3
Senate 
4
Buildings and Works Committee 
5
Key Functionaries 
6
Departments and Associated Faculty Members 
10
Ph.D. Theses Defense 
34
Patents & Publications 
44
Awards & Recognitions 
61
Laboratories 
84
Computer Center 
98
Library 
99
Primary Health Center 
102
Sports Facilities 
102
SC/ST Cell 
103
Student Fests & Events 
108
Student Accolades 
109
Student Counseling Service 
111
Student Placement Cell 
114
Alumni Relations 
117
Registered Students in IIT Jodhpur 
119

Preface
IIT Jodhpur is in its tenth year. This is the beginning of a new journey for the institute. It is
now well settled in the permanent campus. With all the facilities in place, this year IIT Jodhpur has 
embarked on a major plan of expansion. Senate has provided approval for initiating new M.Tech, 
M.Tech-Ph.D and M.Sc-Ph.D dual degree programmes. Institute has initiated interdisciplinary 
research programmes in seven broad areas: Space technology, Quantum Information Processing, 
Cognitive Science, Smart Healthcare, IOT and Applications, Digital Humanities, Autonomous 
Vehicle. IITJ has established a new generation AI lab with installation of high-end GPU based super 
computing system in collaboration with NVIDIA. It has worked out a plan to increase its student 
strength to 1500 by next academic session. The process for appointment of new faculty members is 
in place.
Institute community is now looking forward to a brighter future with support of all stake
Santanu Chaudhury

The Institute shall
(1) 
Promote technology thought and action, and
(2) 
Prepare needed technical human resources to meet the technology challenges of the nation.
The Institute shall
(1) Create a vibrant technology institute that incubates and promotes learning, research, invention
and eventually innovation; and
(2) Prepare each primary stakeholder towards their dharma, while continuing to adhere to its core
(a) Prepare competent Technology Graduates ready to meet Grand Challenges of India;
(b) Train active functionaries of a process driven professional institute;
(c) Facilitate builders of an internationally competitive academic institute; and
(d) Provide technology innovation as a force to as many industries as possible for economic
value creation.
The Institute stands for a set of core values, wherein each member of the IIT Jodhpur
community shall 
(1) Uphold highest levels of human integrity and dignity; 
(2) Not take unfair advantage of any stakeholder of the Institute; 
(3) Work towards building the most admired technology Institute furthering interests of Students,
Industries and Society;
(4) Commit to economic development of India through technological thought and action; 
(5) Be ethical, sincere and open in all transactions; and 
(6) Be continually responsible for upholding utmost confidentiality of all information and
circumstances arising out of any interaction.

ORGANIZATION
Organizational Structure
Under the broad umbrella of IIT Council, IIT Jodhpur functions under the guidance of the
following statutory bodies. 
(1) Board of Governors; 
(2) Finance Committee; 
(3) Senate; and 
(4) Buildings & Works Committee.
The following organogram represents the broad administrative structure of the Institute, at
policy level.
Member details of these Statutory Bodies are given in the pages to follow.

BOARD OF GOVERNORS
Chairman
Dr. R. Chidambaram 
Former Principal Scientific Advisor, Government of India, and 
DAE - Homi Bhabha Chair Professor, Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Bombay
Member-Nominees of the IIT Council
1. Additional Secretary (Technical Education)
Ministry of Human Resource Development 
Government of India, New Delhi
2. Dr. Narpat S. Shekhawat
Former Professor (Plant Technology) 
Jai Narayan Vyas University, Jodhpur
3. Dr. Akhil Ranjan Garg
Professor (Electrical Engineering) 
Jai Narayan Vyas University, Jodhpur
4. Mr. Anil Bhavarlal Jain
Vice Chairman, MD & CEO 
Jain Irrigation Systems, Jalgaon
Member (Nominee of Government of Rajasthan)
Dr. Subodh Agarwal, IAS 
Additional Chief Secretary 
Government of Rajasthan, Jaipur
Member (Nominee of Senate)
Prof. Sampat Raj Vadera 
Professor 
Department of Physics 
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Member (Ex-Officio)
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury 
Director 
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

FINANCE COMMITTEE
Chairman
Dr. R. Chidambaram 
Former Principal Scientific Advisor, Government of India, and 
DAE - Homi Bhabha Chair Professor, Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Bombay
Members
1. Additional Secretary (Technical Education)
Department of Higher Education 
Ministry of Human Resources and Development 
Government of India
2. Financial Advisor
Department of Higher Education 
Ministry of Human Resources and Development 
Government of India
3. G. S. Sood, IDAS
House No. 1090, Sector 29 
Faridabad 121008
4. S. S. Bhandari
Director, Non-Executive Director on the Board 
Bank of Baroda 
P-7, Tilak Marg, C-Scheme 
Jaipur 302005
Member (from within the Institute)
Dr. Gaurav Harit 
Associate Professor 
Department of Computer Science & Engineering 
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Member (Ex-Officio)
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury 
Director 
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

SENATE
Santanu Chaudhury Chairman
Pratap Bhanu Mehta Member (Nominee of Board of Governors)
H. P. Khincha Member (Nominee of Board of Governors) 
Sanjeev Misra Member (Nominee of Board of Governors)
Members
Head, Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
Head, Department of Chemistry
Head, Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Head, Department of Electrical Engineering
Head, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Head, Department of Mathematics
Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering
Head, Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
Head, Department of Physics
Chairman’s Nominee from Departments
Professor C. Venkatesan, Department of Mechanical Engineering
Professor B. P. Kashyap, Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
Invitees
Associate Dean (Faculty)
Associate Dean (R&D)
Associate Dean (Academics)
Associate Dean (Students)
Chairperson, Student Hostel Warden Committee
Chairperson, Library Committee
Chairperson, Student Counselling Services Committee
Chairperson, Admissions Committee
Student Representatives
Secretary, Academics and Careers Society, Students Gymkhana
General Secretary, Students Gymkhana

BUILDINGS AND WORKS COMMITTEE
Chairman
1. Prof. Santanu Chaudhury
Director 
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Members
1. Ms. Usha Kasana
Chief Architect 
Public Works Department 
Government of Rajasthan 
Jacob Road, Civil Lines 
Jaipur 302006
2. Mr. R. K. Govil
Additional Director General Civil (Retd.), CPWD 
26, Ankur Apartments 
7, I.P. Extension 
Delhi 110092
3. Mr. V. K. Bansal
Chief Engineer Electrical (Retd.), CPWD 
721 Sky Lark Apartment, 
Sector-6, Plot No.35, Dwarka 
New Delhi 110075
Member (from within the Institute)
Dr. B. Ravindra 
Associate Professor 
Department of Mechanical Engineering 
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Key Functionaries
At the implementation level, the Institute has organized its activities through various key
functionaries, as depicted in the organogram below.
Abbreviations of Key Functionaries & Offices 
AD 
Associate Dean
ADV 
Advisors
Chair 
Chairperson
PiC 
Professor in-Charge
FM 
Faculty Members
SM 
Staff Members
DR 
Deputy Registrar
AR 
Assistant Registrar
SEE 
Senior Executive Engineer
DL 
Deputy Librarian
B 
Bachelors
M 
Masters
D 
Doctoral
ARC 
Alumni Relations Committee
S&P 
Stores & Purchase

Details of various key functionaries of the Institute are as follow.
Santanu Chaudhury
Rakesh K. Sharma Research & Development
Suril V. Shah Academics (UG Programs)
Somnath Ghosh Academics (PG Programs)
Samanwita Pal Students
Meenu Chhabra Bioscience & Bioengineering
Ritu Gupta Chemistry
Gaurav Harit Computer Science & Engineering
Anil K. Tiwari Electrical Engineering
Ankita Sharma Humanities & Social Sciences
Gaurav Bhatnagar Mathematics
Kaushal A. Desai Mechanical Engineering
Sampat Raj Vadera Physics
B. P. Kashyap Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
Gaurav Bhatnagar Admissions Committee
Shankar Manoharan Alumni Relations Committee
B. P. Kashyap Best B.Tech. Project Thesis Evaluation Committee
Rakesh K. Sharma Center for Advanced Scientific Equipment
Associate Dean (Faculty) Fellowship Application Evaluation Committee
Advisor (Administration) Financial, Administration & Infrastructure Committee
V. Narayanan Grievance Redressal Committee
B. P. Kashyap House Allotment Committee
Kaushal A. Desai Industry Immersion Program
Kshema Prakash Internal Complaints Committee, Women Cell
Kirankumar R. Hiremath Library Committee
Nirmal K. Rana Medical Services Committee
Appala Naidu Gandi Scholarships and Prizes Committee
Ankita Sharma Student Counselling Services Committee 
Puneet Sharma Student Hostel Warden Committee
Sandip Murarka Student Placement Committee
Associate Dean (Academics) Students Disciplinary Action Committee
Associate Dean (Students) Anti-Ragging Committee 
Associate Dean (Students) COTPA Committee
Associate Dean (Faculty) House Allotment Disciplinary Action Committee
Associate Dean (R&D) Research Publication Committee
Dr. Kuldeep Singh, Physician
AIIMS, Jodhpur
Institute Ethics Committee

Ananya Debnath Nodal Officer, Unnat Bharat Abhiyan
Appala Naidu Gandi Nodal Officer for OBC, PwD, and Minorities
Atul Kumar Green Initiatives Officer
Gaurav Bhatnagar Transparency Officer 
Gaurav Bhatnagar Nodal Officer, National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF)
Gaurav Harit Chief Vigilance Officer
Kshema Prakash Women Cell Officer
Meenu Chhabra Nodal Officer, Swachh Bharat Abhiyan
Priyanka Singh Nodal Officer, Vigyan Jyoti Program
Puneet Sharma Hindi Officer
Rakesh K. Sharma Nodal Officer, IMRPINT India Program
Ramesh K. Metre Nodal Officer for SC and ST
Ritu Gupta Nodal Officer, GIAN Program
Sandip Murarka Nodal Officer, DAAD Scholarships Program
Sanjeeb Mukherjee Infrastructure Engineer 
Amardeep Sharma Estate Officer
Somnath Ghosh Nodal Officer, Study in India Program
Amardeep Sharma Public Relations Officer 
Amardeep Sharma Central Public Information Officer
Sudipto Mukhopadhyay Nodal Officer, Ishaan Vikas Program 
Sudipto Mukhopadhyay Nodal Officer, Undergraduate Research Initiative (UGRI)
Associate Dean (Academics - UG) Co-Chairman 
Associate Dean (Academics – PG) Co-Chairman
Members
Head, Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering 
Head, Department of Chemistry 
Head, Department of Computer Science & Engineering 
Head, Department of Electrical Engineering 
Head, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences 
Head, Department of Mathematics 
Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering 
Professor In-Charge, Metallurgical & Materials Engineering 
Head, Department of Physics 
Convener, Focus Group – Biologically Inspired System Science 
Convener, Focus Group – System Science 
Associate Dean (Students) 
Liaison Officer (SC/ST Cell)
Student Members
General Secretary, Students Gymkhana 
Secretary, Academics & Careers Society, Students Gymkhana

of India, and DAE - Homi Bhabha Chair Professor at Bhabha Atomic Research 
Centre, Bombay, is appointed as Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur.
Also, the Board of Governors of IIT Jodhpur has been reconstituted
with four new Members. 
1. Additional Secretary (Technical Education)
Ministry of Human Resource Development 
Government of India, New Delhi
2. Narpat S. Shekhawat
Former Professor (Plant Technology) 
Jai Narayan Vyas University, Jodhpur
3. Akhil Ranjan Garg
Professor (Electrical Engineering) 
Jai Narayan Vyas University, Jodhpur
4. Anil Bhavarlal Jain
Vice-Chairman, MD & CEO 
Jain Irrigation Systems, Jalgaon
Professor Santanu Chaudhury, Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Delhi,
assumed charge as Director, IIT Jodhpur, on December 10, 2018. He holds B.Tech. (Electronics and 
Electrical Communication Engineering) and Ph.D. (Computer Science & Engineering) degrees from 
IIT Kharagpur.
Professor Chaudhury joined as Faculty Member in the Department of Electrical Engineering,
IIT Delhi, in 1992. He was Dean, Under-Graduate Studies at IIT Delhi. He has served as Director of 
CSIR-CEERI, Pilani, during 2016-18. Professor Chaudhury is a recipient of the Distinguished 
Alumnus award from IIT Kharagpur.
Professor Chaudhury is a Fellow of Indian National Academy of Engineers (INAE) and
National Academy of Sciences (NAS). He is a Fellow of International Association for Pattern 
Recognition (IAPR). He was awarded the INSA (Indian National Science Academy) Medal for 
Young Scientists in 1993. He received ACCS-CDAC award for his research contributions in 2012.
A keen researcher and a thorough academic, Professor Chaudhury has about 300
publications in peer-reviewed journals and conference proceedings, 15 patents and 4 
authored/edited books to his credit.

Departments and Associated Faculty Members
The Institute has organized its academic activities to be conducted through nine
1. Bioscience & Bioengineering, 
2. Chemistry, 
3. Computer Science & Engineering, 
4. Electrical Engineering, 
5. Humanities & Social Sciences, 
6. Mathematics, 
7. Mechanical Engineering, 
8. Metallurgical & Materials Engineering, and 
9. Physics
The Institute welcomed 7 new faculty members into the IIT Jodhpur community during this
year. Details of the departments and associated faculty members are given in the pages to follow. 
Recruitment of new faculty is underway.

Name Research Areas
DEPARTMENT OF BIOSCIENCE & BIOENGINEERING
The Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering aspires to cater to the technological
requirements of the country by conducting high-quality, translatable research and by training our 
students to be technological innovators in Biological sciences.
Department currently offers B.Tech. Program in Biotechnology, and M.Tech. & Ph.D.
programs in Bioscience & Bioengineering. In these programs, Students are exposed to state-of-the-
art research infrastructure, where they undergo hands-on training.
The focus of research efforts of the department is on developing solutions in the areas of
healthcare, environment and agriculture. Faculty members pursue complex biological questions in 
the fields of: 
 1. Molecular & Cellular Biology, 
 2. Systems & Computational Biology, 
 3. Biomaterials & Biomechanics, and 
 4. Biological Processes & Bio-Devices.
The department actively collaborates with other departments of the Institute and with other
institutions of higher learning in and around Jodhpur to maximize research and teaching outcomes. 
The department has received research funding from premier funding agencies in India, namely, 
Ministry of Human Resource Development, Department of Science & Technology, Department of 
Biotechnology, Board of Research in Nuclear Science, Science & Engineering Board, and Wellcome 
Trust DBT India Alliance.
Following are the Faculty Members associated with the department:
Meenu Chhabra 
Head of Department
Biological Science & Bio-Engineering: Renewable Bioenergy Bioremediation
Amit Kumar Mishra
Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience, Cell Cycle Regulation and Cancer
Madhu Dikshit
Molecular Pharmacology and Redox Biology
Priyanka Singh
Cellular and Molecular Biology

Shankar Manoharan
Molecular Microbiology, Host-Microbe Interaction, Genomics and Metagenomics
Sushmita Jha
Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience, Cell and Molecular Physiology
Sushmita Paul
Computational Biology and Bioinformatics
Professor U. C. Banerjee, Professor & Head, Department of Pharmaceutical Technology at National
Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER) is associated with the department as 
Adjunct Faculty Member.

Name Research Areas
DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY
Chemistry at IIT Jodhpur is where Chemistry sees Technology. At IIT Jodhpur, Chemistry
embraces a distinctive locus in science and technology collaboration. The department is making 
technological contribution to new materials for energy solutions, catalysis and water. Fundamental 
understanding of chemical dynamics, biological phenomena, Nuclear Magnetic Resonance and 
Quantum Chemistry are growing in prominence. The vision of the Department of Chemistry is to 
strive to be acknowledged for excellence in teaching, research, and outreach. The following Faculty 
Members are associated with the department:
Ritu Gupta 
Head of Department
Nanomaterials & Nanodevices for Water, Energy and Healthcare
Ananya Debnath
Theoretical and Computational Chemistry
Atul Kumar
Quantum Information Processing
Manikandan Paranjothy
Theoretical and Computational Chemistry, Chemical Reaction Dynamics
Nirmal Kumar Rana
Asymmetric Catalysis and Natural Product Synthesis
Rakesh Kumar Sharma
Catalysis for Energy and Stereocontrol, Feedstock Chemistry, Fuel and Lubricants, 
Energy Storage and Water Treatment Technology

Ramesh K. Metre
Main-group organometallic chemistry, Coordination polymers, Inorganic-organic 
hybrid materials and Metal phosphonate and phosphate chemistry
Samanwita Pal
Solution and solid state NMR and NQR spectroscopy
Sandip Murarka
Organic Synthesis, Development of Novel Synthetic Methods, Transition Metal 
Catalyzed Synthetic Transformations, C-H Functionalization Reactions, Asymmetric 
Catalysis

Faculty Member Research Areas
DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE & ENGINEERING
The primary objective of the Department of Computer Science & Engineering is to impart
quality education in the field of Computer Science. The department’s vision is to: 
1. Expand its depth and breadth in the research and study of core Computer Science and
2. Continually improve the research and teaching environment to ensure creation of human
resources with adequate technical and soft skills, and
3. Establish strong industry and academia partnership to augment the classroom knowledge with
practical hands on experience.
The Department is currently offering three academic programs, namely, B.Tech. M.Tech.
and Ph.D. Programs in Computer Science & Engineering. The Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.) 
aims to develop core competence in Computer Science and Engineering among the students and 
thereby prepare them to carry out development work, as well as take up challenges in research. The 
intake of this B.Tech. Program is 60 and M.Tech. Program is 15. The students who have graduated 
from the department are either placed in reputed industries in India, or pursuing higher studies in 
reputed universities within the country or abroad.
The department has research interests in core areas of Computer Science and Engineering.
The Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) program is offered with the goal of producing state-of-the art 
research outputs. Ph.D. students are working in the areas of video analytics, image understanding, 
cloud computing, document analysis, and internet of things. To strengthen the core competence, 
department is also looking for Faculty Members in all areas of Computer Science and Engineering.
Also, the department is keen to collaborate with industry and academia. At present, projects
are going on with All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Jodhpur, Department of Science 
and Technology, Government of India.
Moreover, department works closely with industry leaders like Microsoft, IBM, Intel, TCS,
for academics and research collaboration. In near future, the department is also planning to move 
towards Outcome Based Education (OBE) along with a strong industry-academia partnership. The 
department is steadily striving towards excellence in both academics and research with active 
participation from faculty, staff and students. 
 
Following are the Faculty Members associated with the department:
Gaurav Harit 
Head of Department
Image and Video Analysis
Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay
Computer Vision

Santanu Chaudhury
Computer Vision, Multimedia Systems, Computational Intelligence
Subhajit Siddhanta
Distributed System, Cloud Computing, Distributed Storage, Consistency
Sumit Kalra
Software Architecture, Cloud Computing, Data Analytics
The department also has a Scholar-in-Residence, Professor R. K. Shyama Sunder, who is a
Senior Professor and J. C. Bose National Fellow at Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai.
The department has an Adjunct Faculty Member, Professor Venkatesh Raman from Institute
of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai.

Name Research Areas
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
The Department of Electrical Engineering, formerly a part of the Centre for Information and
Communication Technology (ICT) at IIT Jodhpur (2008), primarily focuses on imparting quality 
education and preparing students to face the future technological challenges. The vision of the 
Department is to enhance the research environment and to innovate in pedagogy to address the 
challenges of socio-economic and human resource development. The Department is committed to 
engage in high quality research by Faculty Members and Students, and in the pursuit of excellence 
in teaching.
With excellent laboratory facilities and dedicated Faculty Members, the Department of
Electrical Engineering offers the following programs: 
1. B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering), 
2. M.Tech. (Electrical Engineering), and 
3. Ph.D. with specialization in Electrical Engineering.
The broad areas of research are Microelectronics, Power and Control Systems,
Communication and Signal Processing, RF and Microwave; and thrust Areas of Research include 
the following. 
1. Signal processing for healthcare, 
2. Devices and circuits for security and sensing, 
3. Low-cost flexible electronics, 
4. Smart grids and distribution of renewable energy, 
5. Wireless and mobile communication, 
6. RF and Microwave, and 
7. Image Processing.
The department has active on-going collaborations with organizations like Freescale
Semiconductors, Global Foundries, AIIMS Jodhpur, DST, DRDO, ISRO, to name a few. The 
Department has been receiving various sponsored projects from R&D organizations since its 
inception. 
 
The following Faculty Members are associated with the department.
Anil Kumar Tiwari 
Head of Department
Electrical Engineering: Image Processing, Video Processing, and Signal Processing 
application in Bio-Medical
Abdul Gafoor Shaik
Protection of various components of Power System, Protection of Distribution 
Network with DG penetration, Power Quality assessment and mitigation in 
Distribution Networks with Renewable Energy Source penetration

Aashish Mathur
Power Line Communications, Free Space Optical Communications, Visible Light 
Communications
Arpit Khandelwal
Group III-V Optoelectronic Devices, Fiber Optics and Integrated Optics Sensors, 
Non-Linear Photonics, Silicon Photonics and Optical Communication
Arun Kumar Singh
Communication Theory, Wireless and Mobile Communications, Satellite based 
Navigation Systems, Spread Spectrum Systems
Deepakkumar M. Fulwani
Control and state estimation of uncertain systems, Power system, Control issues 
in wind energy conversion system
Mahesh Kumar
Group III-V quantum structures by MBE, Growth of thin films and nanostructures, 
Group III-nitride alloys for LEDs, HEMTs and photovoltaic applications, Inorganic-
Inorganic hybrid structures with special attention to band gap engineering, Si and 
wide band gap semiconductors for MEMS, Micro and Nano device fabrications
Sandeep Kumar Yadav
Signal Processing, Condition Monitoring, Image Processing, Data Compression, 
Blind Source Separation, Artificial Neural Network
Shree Prakash Tiwari
Microelectronics & VLSI Technology, Microfabrication, Organic Electronics, Device 
Physics and Characterization, New Device Structures
Rajlaxmi Chouhan
Image processing, Noise-aided image processing using Stochastic Resonance, 
Image enhancement, Digital watermarking, Image quality assessment

1. Aashish Mathur with Prof. Michael Cheffena and Dr. Yun Ai, NTNU, Norway in the area of in
PLC and FSO.
2. Anoop Jain with Prof. Debasish Ghose, IISc, Bangalore and Prof. Daniel Zelazo, Technion in
the areas of multi-agent systems and nonlinear control.
3. Soumava Mukherjee with Prof. A. Biswas, Prof. M. J. Akhtar, IIT Kanpur in the area of SIW
antennas.
Soumava Mukherjee
Microwave Communication
The department has following three Adjunct Faculty Members.
1. Kota V. Murali, Chief Technologist, Semiconductor Research and Development Center, IBM
2. Debashish Datta, Retired Professor, IIT Kharagpur; and 
3. Akshay Kumar Rathore, Associate Professor, Electrical and Computer Engineering, Concordia
The following activities were organized by the department during the FY 2018-19.

Name Research Areas
DEPARTMENT OF HUMANITIES AND SOCIAL SCIENCES
The Department of Humanities and Social Sciences operates from spaces that gives an
opportunity to act as an interface between empirical and experiential knowledge systems. Playing a 
significant role in the academic curriculum of the young engineers, we offer both core and elective 
courses at the Bachelors, Masters, and Doctoral levels. The ability to provide tools and skills for 
specific aims notwithstanding, the essence of Humanities and Social Sciences involves the 
sensitizing of individuals. Acting as facilitators, thus, we engage in meaningful interactions with 
students and help them witness, study, and understand the interplays among technology, society, 
and humanity. This task assumes even more significance in an educational context where the 
brightest young minds of India come together.
With faculty members who specialize in diverse disciplines (including Philosophy,
Psychology, and Literature) and with students from a spectrum of backgrounds, the department 
provides an enriching platform where technical education can be complemented with human and 
social understanding. Following are the faculty members associated with the department.
Ankita Sharma 
Head of Department
Psychology: Gerontology, Clinical and Positive Psychology
K. J. George
Philosophy: Applied Ethics, Ethics of Technology, Bioethics
V. Hari Narayanan
Philosophy: Cognitive Studies, Evolutionary Theory, Analytic Philosophy and 
Mindfulness
Mayurakshi Chaudhury
Sociology/Sociocultural Anthropology: Gender Studies; Postcolonial South Asia; 
International and Transnational Migrations, Qualitative Research
Vidya Sarveswaran
English: Literature and Environment (Ecocriticism), Film and Literature, Literatures of 
the Global South, Regional Literatures in Translation, American Literature

Chhanda Chakraborti, Professor, Humanities & Social Sciences, IIT Kharagpur is associated
with the Department as Adjunct faculty member.
Mayurakshi Chaudhuri was invited to participate in the Direct To Home (DTH) project by
the Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD). As part of the project, she has recorded a 
set of 20 lectures on the course Gender and Society at the Media Center, IIT Kanpur, which is the 
Coordinating Institute for the project. Her lectures shall be telecast on Channel 16 for Humanities & 
Social Sciences and Management, by Doordarshan. Channel 16 has already begun telecasting 
courses since early 2018.

Name Research Areas
DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICS
Mathematics, being the basis of many disciplines, is a subject that evolves with time and
creates new theories to solve real-world challenging problems. The department has been taking a 
leading role in developing new methods to model such situations that can be used in diverse areas 
of computer science, engineering, and basic sciences. The department has faculty with research 
interests in the areas of Algebra, Mathematical Physics, Scientific Computation, Numerical 
Analysis, Partial Differential Equations, Topological Dynamics, Low Dimensional Chaos, 
Dynamical Systems, Renormalization in Low-dimensional dynamics, Wavelet Analysis, Fractional 
Transform Theory, Image Processing, Financial Risk Analysis, Categorical Data Analysis, 
Reliability Theory and Applied Probability.
The department offers high-quality programs at postgraduate level, M.Sc.(Mathematics)
and Ph.D.(Mathematics) catering mathematical interests of students in various areas of pure and 
applied mathematics. The institute has also approved two year M.Tech program in Data and 
Computational Sciences, a four-year M.Sc-M.Tech program in Data and Computational Sciences 
and an M.Tech-Ph.D. dual degree program in Data and Computational Sciences to be offered by the 
department of Mathematics, and are expected to commence from the upcoming academic session. 
Following are the Faculty Members associated with the department.
Gaurav Bhatnagar 
Head of Department
Wavelet Analysis, Fractional Transform Theory, Multimedia Security, Image 
Processing, Information Fusion
Kirankumar R. Hiremath
Theoretical, mathematical and computational aspects of wave-matter interactions
Puneet Sharma
Topological Dynamics, Low Dimensional Chaos
V. V. M. S. Chandramouli
Dynamical Systems, Renormalization in Low-Dim Dynamics
Vivek Vijay
Financial Risk Analysis, Categorical Data Analysis, Regression

DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
The Department of Mechanical Engineering primarily focuses on imparting quality
education and preparing students to face the future technological challenges in the field of 
Mechanical engineering. The vision of the Department is to enhance the research environment and 
to innovate in pedagogy to address the challenges of socio-economic and human resource 
development. The Department is committed to high quality research by Faculty Members and 
Students in the pursuit of excellence in teaching.
The department offers B. Tech. in Mechanical Engineering providing specializations across
different domains in Mechanical engineering. The department also offers high quality postgraduate 
programs, M.Tech.(Mechanical Engineering) and Ph.D.(Mechanical Engineering) with a broad 
range of specializations. The institute has approved to offer minor degrees in Management and 
Entrepreneurship for B. Tech. students and to offer interdisciplinary specializations in the emerging 
areas such as Artificial Intelligence (AI), Data and Computational Science, Smart Healthcare, 
Energy Materials and Cyber Physical Systems (CPS). All approved minor degrees are expected to 
be offered from upcoming academic session.
The department offers a high quality Ph.D. program along different technology tracks. The
institute has approved two state-of-the-art M.Tech. programs, M.Tech. in Thermofluids 
Engineering and M.Tech in Advanced Manufacturing and Design and a dual degree (M. Tech. + 
Ph. D.) program to be offered by Department of Mechanical Engineering. The programs are 
expected to commence from the upcoming academic session. The department is well-equipped 
with laboratories in different domains of Mechanical Engineering. The department has vast variety 
of computational tools such as ANSYS, ABAQUS, OpenFOAM, Solidworks, Hyperworks, Creo, 
Tecplot, MATLAB etc. along with high end computational facilities. The department has active 
collaborations with AIIMS Jodhpur, General Electric, Thermax, DRDO, ISRO, TCS Innovation Lab, 
TVS Motor Company to name a few. The department has been attracting various sponsored 
projects from R&D organizations since its inception.
Technology Tracks include the following. 
 1. Additive Manufacturing 
11. Solar Thermal Storage
2. Conventional and Non-Conventional Machining 
12. Solar Thermal Applications
3. Casting, Welding and Forming 
13. Multi-phase Flow and Heat Transfer
4. Non-linear Vibration 
14. Air Cooled Condensers
5. MEMS 
15. Compact Heat Exchanger
6. Robot Modelling and Control 
16. Heat Transfer Enhancement
7. All Terrain Vehicles 
17. Water energy Nexus
8. Unmanned Aerial Vehicles 
18. Technologies for Rural Development
9. Energy and Propulsion 
19. Smart Manufacturing and Industry 4.0
10. Solar Resource Assessment 
20. Metrology and Quality Control

Name Research Areas
The following Faculty Members are associated with the department.
Kaushalkumar A. Desai 
Head of Department
Modeling of Manufacturing Processes, CAD/CAM, CNC Machining, Error 
compensation
Anand Krishnan Plappally
Water, Water Management and Characterization of Engineered Materials
B. Ravindra
Design, Dynamics, Vibration and Control
Barun Pratiher
Dynamics of Machines and Structures, Flexible Robots, MEMS, Rotor Dynamics, 
Nonlinear Oscillations
C. Venkatesan
Helicopter Dynamics and Aeroelasticity, Design of Autonomous Mini Helicopters, 
and Smart Structure Analysis
Hardik B. Kothadia
Multiphase Flow, Boiling and Condensation, Heat Transfer, Fluid Mechanics, 
Gasification
Prodyut R. Chakraborty
Heat and mass transfer, Latent heat based storage device for high temperature 
applications, Alloy solidification process, Active and passive solar cooling systems, 
Electronic cooling
Rahul Chibber
Welding and joining, Manufacturing and materials processing, Mechanical 
behaviour of materials

Suril V. Shah
Robotics, Multibody Dynamics and Control
Sudipto Mukhopadhyay
Energy Technology, Combustion Technology, Computational Fluid Dynamics, 
Turbulent flows, Sprays

Name Research Areas
DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGICAL & MATERIALS ENGINEERING
The Institute has started Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering in January
2017. The department is currently offering two degree programs, namely, M.Tech., and Ph.D. in 
Metallurgical & Materials Engineering. The focus areas of the department are: 
(1) Electronic Materials, Biomaterials, Optical and Magnetic Materials and Devices, 
(2) Extraction of Metals and Mineral Processing, 
(3) Integrated Computational Materials Engineering, 
(4) Materials Processing and Process Development, 
(5) Physical and Mechanical Metallurgy of Materials, and 
(6) Thermodynamics and Kinetic Processes in Materials. 
The following Faculty Members are associated with the department.
Bhagwati P. Kashyap 
Professor In-Charge
Thermo-mechanical treatment and Super-plasticity, Grain boundary phenomena, 
Creep and low temperature deformation, Microstructure - flow property 
correlations, and Light metals and alloy development
Abir Bhattachayya
Mechanical Behavior of Materials, Fatigue of Bearing Steels, High-strain rate 
Deformation of Materials, Indentation Response of Materials
Appala Naidu Gandi
First Principles Calculations, Phase Filed Modelling
Computational Thermodynamics for Alloy Design, Solidification Studies on light 
alloys, Biodegradable magnesium alloys, Self-cleaning coating
The following activities were organized by the department.

Name Research Areas
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS
A visible research in fundamental Physics along with its applications is the major theme of
Physics department at IIT Jodhpur. The faculty members carry out research in the field of 
Astrophysics, Condensed Matter Physics & Material Science, Particle Physics, Experimental and 
Theoretical Quantum Optics, Quantum Information and Foundations of Quantum Mechanics. The 
research facilities available in the department include SQUID magnetometer, Physics Property 
Measurement Systems (PPMS), Raman Spectrometer and Scanning Tunnelling Microscope (STM).
Following are the faculty members associated with the department.
Sampat Raj Vadera 
Head of Department
Solid State Physics, Materials Science, Nanoscience and Nanotechnology, Stealth 
Materials, Stealth Technology
Ambesh Dixit
Semiconductors, multifunctional ferroics & materials for energy-fabrication & 
characterization, Photovoltaic materials & devices ab initio DFT study and device 
simulations
Ashutosh Kumar Alok
Particle Physics and Cosmology
Durgamadhab Mishra
Magnetic thin films and nanoparticles, Permanent Magnets, Synchrotron and Neutron 
Scattering and X-ray imaging
Monika Sinha
Astrophysics, Astroparticle physics
Satyajit Sahu
Information Processing in Biological Systems
Subhashish Banerjee
Open Quantum Systems; Quantum Information; Non-Equilibrium Statistical Mechanics; 
Quantum Optics

Somnath Ghosh
Light in disordered and complex systems, Mid-IR photonics and unconventional 
devices
V. Narayanan
Optics and Solar Field Design, Plasmonics, Laser Produced Plasmas (LPP), Pulsed Laser 
Deposition (PLD), Plasma Diagnostics (Interferometry & Optical Emission 
Spectroscopy (OES)), Laser Matter Interaction and Laser Cluster Interaction
The department also has a Scholar-in-Residence, Professor K. L. Chopra, Advisor, Thin Film
Laboratory, IIT Delhi.

Staff Members
The following are the Staff Members engaged in various Offices and Departments of the
Kshema Prakash 
Deputy Librarian
Amit Kumar Soni 
Senior Library & Information Assistant
Chunni Chhatwani 
Senior Library & Information Assistant
Kamleshkumar J. Patel 
Senior Library & Information Assistant
Gaurav Nigam 
Superintendent
Sandeep Singh Chandel 
Superintendent
Rashmi Dhyani 
Junior Assistant
Ram Niwas Dhayal 
Junior Assistant
Ashish Kachhawaha 
Superintendent
Naresh Chouhan 
Junior Superintendent
Rakesh Kumar 
Junior Assistant
Narayan Dadhich 
Junior Assistant
Sapna Sankhla 
Junior Assistant
Amardeep Sharma 
Deputy Registrar
Neeraj Kumar 
Junior Assistant
Gurpreet Kaur Virdi 
Assistant
Laxman Singh 
Junior Superintendent
Abhay Kumar Awasthi 
Junior Assistant
Biswajit Pramanik 
Junior Assistant
Sanjeeb Mukherjee 
Senior Executive Engineer (Civil)
Anand Padegaonkar 
Assistant Executive Engineer (Civil)
Vinay Kumar 
Assistant Engineer (Electrical)
Siddarth Mukherjee 
Assistant Engineer (Civil)
Ashish Kumar 
Junior Engineer (Civil)
Dheeraj Updhyay 
Junior Assistant
T. Madhavi Lata 
Stenographer
Sharad Srivastava 
Senior Assistant

Darsh Kumar Khatwani 
Assistant
Shyam Sunder Singh 
Junior Assistant
Ishmeet Singh 
Junior Assistant
Sandeep Singh Chandel 
Superintendent
Arjun Das 
Physical Training Instructor
Mahesh Kumar Meena 
Junior Assistant
Sharabh Pradhan 
Junior Superintendent
Shakti Ranjan Patra 
Assistant Registrar
Suresh Chandra Phulara 
Junior Assistant
Ganesh Kumawat 
Junior Assistant
Dhani Ram Choudhary 
Stenographer
Swati Kushwaha 
Junior Assistant
Trilotama Singh 
Junior Assistant
Shashank Choudhary 
Junior Assistant
Bharat Pareek 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Poonam 
Junior Technician
Ganpat Chowdhary 
Junior Technician
Shubham Pandey 
Junior Technician
Rimpesh Katiyar 
Technical Superintendent
Rinkesh Kumar Mangal 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Dheerendra Kumar Yadav 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Poonam Chand Sankhla 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Ram Singh Ratnu 
Technician
Vivek Verma 
Junior Technician
Bhanprakash Goswami 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Gajraj Sharma 
Junior Technician
Hemraj Dhodhawat 
Junior Technician
Kailash Chander 
Junior Technician
Naveen Kumar 
Junior Technician

Chandra Veer Charan 
Assistant Workshop Superintendent
Praveen Suthar 
Junior Technician
Bhagya Wardhan 
Junior Technician
Rambeer Singh 
Junior Technician
Dhavalbhai M. Raiyani 
Junior Technician
Ravi Jangid 
Junior Technician
Sampatlal N. Suthar 
Junior Technician
Narendra Kumar Singh 
Technical Superintendent

ACADEMICS
Current Academic Programs
Currently, the Institute offers the following four sets of Programs:
1. Bachelor of Technology Programs:
1. B.Tech. (Biotechnology) 
2. B.Tech. (Computer Science and Engineering) 
3. B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering) 
4. B.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering)
2. Master of Science Programs
3. Master of Technology Programs
1. M.Tech. (Bioscience & Bioengineering) 
2. M.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering) 
3. M.Tech. (Electrical Engineering) 
4. M.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering) 
5. M.Tech. (Metallurgical & Materials Engineering)
4. Doctor of Philosophy Programs
1. Ph.D. with specialization in Biology 
2. Ph.D. with specialization in Chemistry 
3. Ph.D. with specialization in Computer Science & Engineering 
4. Ph.D. with specialization in Electrical Engineering 
5. Ph.D. with specialization in Humanities & Social Sciences 
6. Ph.D. with specialization in Mathematics 
7. Ph.D. with specialization in Mechanical Engineering 
8. Ph.D. with specialization in Metallurgical & Materials Engineering 
9. Ph.D. with specialization in Physics
Upcoming Academic Programs
Senate of the Institute has approved the following new programs from AY 2019-20. 
 
1. Master of Science - Master of Technology Programs 
 
1. Mathematics & Data Science
2. Master of Technology Programs 
 
1. M.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering)
3. M.Tech. (Cyber Physical Systems)
4. M.Tech. (Sensors and Internet of Things)
5. M.Tech. (Data and Computational Sciences)
6. M.Tech. (Advanced Manufacturing and Design)
8. M.Tech. (Metallurgical & Materials Engineering)

3. Master of Technology - Doctor of Philosophy (M.Tech.-Ph.D.) Dual Degree Programs 
 
1. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Bioscience & Bioengineering)
2. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Computer Science & Engineering)
3. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Artificial Intelligence)
4. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Communication Engineering)
5. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Cyber Physical Systems)
6. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Sensors and Internet of Things)
7. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Data and Computational Sciences)
8. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Metallurgical & Materials Engineering)
9. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Design Engineering)
10. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Advanced Manufacturing and Design)
11. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Thermofluids Engineering)
4. Doctor of Philosophy Program in Inter-disciplinary Areas 
 
1. Ph.D. (AUV Technologies)
5. Ph.D. (Quantum Information and Computation)

S.No. Name of the Title of Thesis Supervisor Center / Focus Group Date of Defense
Student / Department
1. Rakesh Kanji Systems modeling of target HoD Bioscience & Bioscience & 2 April 2018
and chemical profiles of Bioengineering Bioengineering
drugs to predict their and
phenotypic side effects Ganesh Bagler
2. Rahul Badhwar Systems Biological
Investigations of Brain
Networks HoD Bioscience &
Bioengineering
and
Ganesh Bagler Bioscience &
Bioengineering 18 April 2018
3. Lokesh Saini Ferroics and Their Rubber Ambesh Dixit and Physics 4 June 2018
Composites for Wide-band S.R. Vadera
4. Rohitash Kumar Design, Development and
Characterization of Low
and High
Temperature Phase Change
Materials for Thermal
Energy
Storage Applications Ambesh Dixit Physics 17 July 2018
5. Kapil Sharma Utilizing Topology B. Venkata Ramana Computer Science & 13 July 2018
Structures For Delay Engineering
6. Ranveer Singh A Measure of Balance,
Spectra of Signed Graphs,
and a
Novel Algorithm for Matrix
Determinant and
Permanent Bibhas Adhikari Mathematics 19 July 2018
7. Rohan Sharma Complex network Bibhas Adhikari System Science and 19 July 2018
generative models using associated with the
corona product Department of
of graphs Mathematics
8. Parmod Kumar
Paul Technical Analysis for
Short-Term Forecasting of
Financial Data and Turn of
the Year Effect Vivek Vijay Mathematics 5 October 2018
9. Parvinder Singh Analysing Multiqubit Atul Kumar System Science & 8 October 2018
Entanglement, Nonlocality Department of
and Quantum Chemistry
10. Om Prakash
Mahela Power Quality Assessment
and Mitigation in
Distribution
System with Renewable
Energy Penetration Abdul Gafoor Shaik Electrical
Engineering 11 October 2018
Ph.D. Theses
The following Ph.D. Students defended their theses successfully this year:

S.No. Name of the
Student Title of Thesis Supervisor Center / Focus Date of Defense
11. Suresh Dahiya Massive MIMO Systems: Arun Kumar Singh Electrical 13 October 2018
Channel Modeling and Engineering
12. Vibha Sahlot Conflicts in Geometry Subhashish
Banerjee Computer Science &
Engineering 8 January 2019
13. Supriyo Dutta Graph Theoretic Aspects of Subhashish Mathematics 11 January 2019
Quantum Information Banerjee
14. Amrita Kaurwar Characterization of Clay
Ceramics based on reuse of
Organic residue and
Industrial wastes for Point
of Use Water Filteration
Application Anand Krishnan
Plappally Mechanical
Engineering 28 January 2019
15. Rakesh Joshi Experimental Investigation Rahul Chhibber Mechanical 25 January 2019
on Development and Engineering
16. Manish Raghav Dynamics of a General Non-
autonomous Dynamical
System Puneet Sharma Mathematics 7 February 2019
17. Goutam Kumar Cu2ZnSnS4 related Ambesh Dixit Center for Solar 14 February 2019
Gupta Chalcogenide Absorbers: Energy and
Thin Films and associated with the
Heterostructure Department of
Photovoltaic Devices Physics
18. Vibhuti Joshi Promising Molecular
Modulations of E3 Ubiquitin
Ligases Regulate Cellular
Proliferation and
Suppresses Misfolded
Proteins Accumulation Amit Kumar Mishra Bioscience &
Bioengineering 22 February 2019
19. Arun Kumar Innovative Harnessing of Amit Kumar Mishra Bioscience & 27 February 2019
Upadhyay Molecular Bioengineering
20. Vipin Joshi Modeling and Simulation of
Gallium Nitride High
Electron Mobility
Transistors and
Optimisation of Buffer
Layer Shree Prakash
Tiwari Electrical
Engineering 27 February 2019

(a) International Institutes and Universities
(b) National Institutes and Universities
2. All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur (10 July 2018)
4. CSIR – Central Electronics Engineering Research Institute (21 January 2019)
6. National Digital Library of India, a project of MHRD (26 February 2019)
(c) Industries
Collaborations
The Institute has signed Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) with several international
1. 
Central Connecticut State University, New Britain, Connecticut, USA (08 October 2018)
To implement academic exchange and cooperation in teaching, research and training
for the advancement and dissemination of learning.
1. 
National Law University, Jodhpur (Continuing)
To collaborate in various academic activities in the spheres of expertise.
3. 
All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur (06 September 2018)
For development of joint Center for Healthcare Technologies.
5. 
CSIR - Institute of Genomics & Integrative Biology, New Delhi (26 February 2019)
For the joint pursuit of education, advancement of research and product development.
7. 
National Coordinating Institute IIT Delhi (Unnat Bharat Abhiyan) and Regional Coordinating 
Institute, IIT Jodhpur (06 March 2019)
MoU in line with Unnat Bharat Abhiyan, Ministry of Human Resource Development
1. 
NVIDIA (30 January 2019)
To develop next generation AI systems at IIT Jodhpur’s AINEXT Centre, with NVIDIA
as a key technology and computing platform partner.

(1) (1) How LRASM1 gene regulates cellular protein quality control functions? Implications in neurodegeneration
PI: Amit Mishra Rs. 23.10 Lakhs Start Date: 26 Sep 2016 End Date: 25 Sep 2019
(2) Molecular studies to delineate the role of nitric oxide/nitric oxide synthase in neutrophil maturation,
PI: Madhu Dixit Rs. 88.40 Lakhs Start Date: 15 May 2018 End Date: 23 Feb 2021
(3) Bioremediation of low level wastes including denitrification using microbial fuel cells
PI: Meenu Chhabra; Co-
PI: Atul Kumar Rs. 22.73 Lakhs Start Date: 12 Mar 2018 End Date: 30 Sep 2018
(4) Development of low cost Microbial Carbon capture (MCC) cells for algae cultivation and powers
PI: Meenu Chhabra Rs. 77.59 Lakhs Start Date: 24 Dec 2018 End Date: 23 Dec 2019
(5) Role of Centriole Protein, CPAP, in Neurodevelopmental disorder
PI: Priyanka Singh Rs. 38.74 Lakhs Start Date: 28 Nov 2018 End Date: 27 Nov 2020
(6) Hospital-associated ESKAPE pathogens: Unraveling novel regulatory layers controlling virulence and
PI: Shankar Manoharan Rs. 1.64 Cr. Start Date: 17 Jan 2018 End Date: 31 Aug 2022
(7) Deposition of particulate matter in lungs
PI: Sushmita Jha Rs. 24.79 Lakhs Start Date: 12 Mar 2014 End Date: 31 Mar 2019
(8) Expression analysis of inflammasome-forming NLRs in gliomas for identification of novel therapeutic
PI: Sushmita Jha Rs. 42.15 Lakhs Start Date: 06 Sep 2017 End Date: 05 Sep 2020
(9) Integrative Approach for Identification of Disease Genes of Type II Diabetes
PI: Sushmita Paul Rs. 26.76 Lakhs Start Date: 30 Mar 2017 End Date: 29 Mar 2020
(10) (10) Multiparticle Entanglement, Nonlocality and Quantum Information processing-Analysing the role and
PI: Atul Kumar Rs. 19.50 Lakhs Start Date: 18 Mar 2019 End Date: 18 Mar 2022
(11) Development of Catalytic Diastereo and Enantiodivergent Tandem Reactions
PI: Nirmal Kumar Rana Rs. 35 Lakhs Start Date: 02 July 2018 End Date: 01 Nov 2020
RESEARCH
R & D Projects
Sponsored Research Projects

(12) Solid State High Energy Density Lithium Ion Rechargeable & Technlogy
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma Rs. 6.45 Lakhs Start Date: 26 June 2014 End Date: 22 May 2018
(13) Catalytic Upgrading of Bio-Oil to Transport Fuel
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma Rs. 94.79 Lakhs Start Date: 24 Dec 2014 End Date: 23 Dec 2019
(14) Impact of Rainwater Harvesting on Groundwater Quality in India with Specific Reference to Fluoride and
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma Rs. 75.27 Lakhs Start Date: 10 May 2018 End Date: 09 May 2021
(15) New Single Source Precursors for Potential Nanostructured Bi2Te3/sb2Te3 System Based Thermoelectric
PI: Ramesh K. Metre Rs. 32.12 Lakhs Start Date: 05 Oct 2017 End Date: 04 Oct 2020
(16) Development of electrochemical energy storage from carbon rich waste
PI: Ritu Gupta;
Co-PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma Rs. 37.17 Lakhs Start Date: 02 Mar 2017 End Date: 01 Mar 2020
(17) Solid state Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) assessment of zinc oxide (ZnO) nanomaterial based drug
PI: Samanwita Pal;
Co-PI: Ambesh Dixit Rs. 34.45 Lakhs Start Date: 28 Aug 2017 End Date: 27 Aug 2020
(18) Tandem Annulations Involving Metallocarbenes: Towards Diverse Molecular Architectures
PI: Sandip Murarka Rs. 33 Lakhs Start Date: 10 Jul 2018 End Date: 09 July 2021
(19) (19) Development of Multimodal Search Framework For Architectural Floor Plan
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of
India Development of Multimodal Search Framework For Architectural Floor Plan
PI: Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay Rs. 24.5 Lakhs Start Date: 30 Mar 2017 End Date: 29 Mar 2020
(20) Information Access from Document Images of Indian Languages
PI: Gaurav Harit Rs. 40 Lakhs Start Date: 25 Oct 2017 End Date: 24 Oct 2020
(21) Netapp Faculty Fellowship: Edge Computing
PI: Subhajit Sidhanta Rs. 5 Lakhs Start Date: 02 Feb 2018 End Date: 01 Feb 2020
(22) Indian Heritage in Digital Space of Interdisciplinary cyber physical Systems
PI: Santanu Chaudhury Rs. 12.75 Cr. Start Date: 25 Mar 2019 End Date: 24 Mar 2022
(23) Software as a service for OCR system for Odia Documents Images
PI: Santanu Chaudhury;
Co-PI: Gaurav Harit Rs. 20.16 Lakhs Start Date: 26 Mar 2019 End Date: 25 Sep 2020
(24) Digital Representation Generation for Efficient Retrieval of Bangla Document Images in Digital Libraries
PI: Santanu Chaudhury;
Co-PI: Gaurav Harit Rs. 76 Lakhs Start Date: 01 Mar 2019 End Date: 31 Jan 2020

(25) (25) Transforming Healthcare through Tech-dinor
PI: Sandeep Kumar Yadav Rs. 14.25 Lakhs Start Date: 02 Dec 2014 End Date: 01 Dec 2016 Project
Extended
(26) Substrate Integrated Coaxial Line (SICL) based Circuits and Systems for Millimeter Wave Application
PI: Soumava Mukherjee Rs. 35 Lakhs Start Date: 20 Sep 2017 End Date: 19 Sep 2022
(27) Design and Development of Midrange(>=10 km) RF Transceiver system to transmit Nuclear Radiation
PI: Arpit Khandelwal;
Co-PI: Suril V. Shah Rs. 9.60 Lakhs Start Date: 17 Dec 2018 End Date: 16 Dec 2019
(28) Computationally efficient fixed complexity sphere decodes for multiuser MIMO communications
PI: Arun Kumar Singh Rs. 22.82 Lakhs Start Date: 13 Jan 2016 End Date: 12 Jan 2019
(29) Design and development of NavIC Receiver
PI: Arun Kumar Singh Rs. 64.55 Lakhs Start Date: 18 Oct 2017 End Date: 17 April 2020
(30) Hub and Spoke Consortia for e2W and e3W Electric Drives-Design Development of Prototyping of
PI: Deepak Fulwani Rs. 24.40 Lakhs Start Date: 31 Aug 2018 End Date: 30 Aug 2020
(31) Design and Development of Tunable RF Filter Based on Ferroelectric Thin Film by Sputtering
PI: Mahesh Kumar;
Co-PI: Satyajit Sahu Rs. 20 Lakhs Start Date: 04 Dec 2017 End Date: 03 Dec 2019
(32) Noise-enhanced Edge-preserving Image Denoising using Stochastic Resonance
PI: Rajlaxmi Chouhan Rs. 26.64 Lakhs Start Date: 17 Mar 2017 End Date: 16 Mar 2020
(33) Special Manpower development Program for Chips to System Design (SMDP-C2SD)/ Design of a Sensor
PI: Shree Prakash Tiwari;
Co-PI: Deepak Fulwani Rs. 10.43 Lakhs Start Date: 11 Aug 2015 End Date: 31 Mar 2020
(34) High Performance Low Voltage Flexible Organic Field-Effect Transistors for Circuit and Sensing
PI: Shree Prakash Tiwari Rs. 51.70 Lakhs Start Date: 15 Sep 2018 End Date: 14 Sep 2021
(35) (35) Wisdom as cognitive and motivational-emotional heuristics in ecologically rational decision making
PI: Ankita Sharma Rs. 22.3 Lakhs Start Date: 29 Apr 2015 End Date: 28 Apr 2018
(36) Where the Bougainvillea Blooms: Stories of Place from a Resilient Landscape
PI: Vidya Sarveswaran Rs. 0.5 Lakhs Start Date: 04 Sep 2014 End Date: 03 Sep 2015 Project
Extended
(37) Public Outreach Grant
PI: Vidya Sarveswaran Rs. 1.06 Lakhs Start Date: 05 Jun 2017 End Date: 04 Jun 2019

(38) (38) Multimedia security based on biometrics for copyright protection and authentication
PI: Gaurav Bhatnagar Rs. 13.44 Lakhs Start Date: 13 Nov 2014 End Date: 12 Nov 2017 Project Extended
(39) Automorphism Groups of Induced Symbolic Systems
PI: Puneet Sharma Rs. 3.32 Lakhs Start Date: 31 Mar 2017 End Date: 30 Mar 2020
(40) (40) Local Composite geotextile mats for soil and water conservation in western Rajasthan
PI: Anand Krishnan Plappally Rs. 19.80 Lakhs Start Date: 30 Aug 2016 End Date: 29 Aug 2019
(41) Hybrid reactionless manipulation and visual serving of a satellite mounted robot for autonomous on orbit
PI: Suril V. Shah Rs. 35 Lakhs Start Date: 27 Jan 2016 End Date: 28 Nov 2018
(42) Bifurcation and stability assessment of a highly lightweight rotor-bearing system with moving platform
PI: Barun Pratiher Rs. 21.80 Lakhs Start Date: 17 Jul 2014 End Date: 16 Jul 2017 Project
Extended
(43) Performance Testing of ACC Tube Bundles Along With Establishing Their Theoretical Correlation
PI: Hardik Kothadia Rs. 29.15 Lakhs Start Date: 27 Mar 2019 End Date: 26 Sep 2019
(44) Minimizing deflection induced surface errors in end milling of thin walled components
PI: Kaushal A. Desai Rs. 15.34 Lakhs Start Date: 26 July 2016 End Date: 25 Jul 2019
(45) Thermal Design of PCM Cool and Warm Vest
PI: Prodyut R. Chakraborty;
Co-PI: Akshay Prakash Rs. 9.96 Lakhs Start Date: 02 Dec 2015 End Date: 30 Jun 2019
(46) Cascaded Latent Heat Storage (CLHS) for high temperature CSP applications material development and
PI: Prodyut R. Chakraborty;
Co-PI: Laltu Chandra, Ambesh Dixit,
Saptarshi Basu Rs. 58.44 Lakhs Start Date: 03 Aug 2018 End Date: 02 Aug 2021
(47) Development of Highly Efficient Low Cost Insulation for power plants
PI: Sudipto Mukhopadhyay Rs. 93.47 Lakhs Start Date: 07 May 2018 End Date: 06 May 2021
(48) (48) Synchrony Based Evolution of Various Biological and Artificial Systems to Understand Complex
PI: Satyajit Sahu Rs. 35 Lakhs Start Date: 13 Mar 2013 End Date: 12 Mar 2019
(49) Development of III-Nitrides thin film(s) for high frequency saw device applications
PI: Ambesh Dixit Rs. 22.62 Lakhs Start Date: 01 Apr 2013 End Date: 30 Jun 2018
(50) Probing Magnetic Structures and Spin Flop transition in bulk and nanostructured FeVo4 Multiferroic
PI: Ambesh Dixit Rs. 6.60 Lakhs Start Date: 13 Jan 2016 End Date: 31 Dec 2019

(51) Development of nanostructured Cu2ZnSn(S/Se)4 thin films and their electronic properties for next
PI: Ambesh Dixit Rs. 37.22 Lakhs Start Date: 18 Mar 2017 End Date: 17 Mar 2020
(52) Application specialty optical fibers and towards 1D random lasers in disordered lattices
PI: Somnath Ghosh Rs. 35 Lakhs Start Date: 28 Mar 2017 End Date: 27 Mar 2019
(53) Investigation of magnetoelectric coupling in Cil-xTMxOMultiferroic System
PI: Ambesh Dixit Rs. 23.42 Lakhs Start Date: 27 Mar 2014 End Date: 26 Mar 2017
(54) Synthesis and study of properties of electrochemically active composites based on lithium intercalated
PI: Ambesh Dixit Rs. 23.31 Lakhs Start Date: 22 Nov 2018 End Date: 07 Nov 2020
(55) Magnetars with Superfluid Core
PI: Monika Sinha Rs. 20.60 Lakhs Start Date: 21 Mar 2018 End Date: 20 Mar 2021
(56) Possibilities and Device Applications of Degenerate Optical Microcavities
PI: Somnath Ghosh Rs. 34.89 Lakhs Start Date: 09 May 2018 End Date: 08 May 2021
(57) A Study of quantum correlations : Squeezing and its various facets
PI: Subhashish Banerjee Rs. 5.10 Lakhs Start Date: 22 Aug 2016 End Date: 22 Aug 2019
(1) Towards the development of low-cost water quality sensors - Phase I
Panasonic R&D Center of India
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma Rs. 2.35 Lakhs Start Date: 01 Oct 2014
(2) Towards the development of low-cost water quality sensors - Phase II
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma Rs. 64.37 Lakhs Start Date: 16 Feb 2015
(3) Short term course on Helicopter dynamics and handling qualities
Defense Research & Development Organization (DRDO), Government of India
PI: Suril Vijaykumar Shah;
Co-PI: C. Venkatesan Rs. 3.72 Lakhs Start Date: 15 Feb 2017
(4) Visual Servoing of Mobile Manipulator with application to smart warehouse and smart factory
PI: Suril Vijaykumar Shah Rs. 10.12 Lakhs Start Date: 01 Jul 2017
(5) Helicopter Dynamics and Handling Quality
ASTE Bangalore
PI: C. Venkatesan Rs. 3.42 Lakhs Start Date: 10 Dec 2018
Consultancy Projects

(1) Identification, assessment and characterization of E3 ubiquitin ligases implicated in the
neurodegenerative diseases
Ramalingaswami Fellowship Project
PI: Amit Mishra Rs. 74.50 Lakhs Start Date: 15 July 2011 End Date: 14 Feb 2017 Project
Extended
(2) Young Faculty Research Fellowship (YFRF) of Visvesvarya PhD Scheme
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY)
PI: Gaurav Harit Rs. 22.2 Lakhs Start Date: 22 Jan 2018 End Date: 21 Jan 2020
(3) Visvesvaraya Ph.D Scholarship scheme for Electronics & IT (Part-2)
Media Lab Asia
PI: Anil Kumar Tiwari Rs. 3 Cr. Start Date: 21 Oct 2014 End Date: 20 Oct 2019
(4) Visvesvaraya Ph.D Scholarship scheme for Electronics & IT (Part-2)
PI: Anil Kumar Tiwari Rs. 3 Cr. Start Date: 21 Oct 2014 End Date: 20 Oct 2019
(5) Young Faculty Research Fellowship (YFRF) of Visvesvarya PhD Scheme
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY)
PI: Shree Prakash Tiwari Rs. 37 Lakhs Start Date: 24 Jan 2018 End Date: 23 Jan 2020
(6) Young Faculty Research Fellowship (YFRF) of Visvesvarya PhD Scheme
PI: Deepak Fulwani Rs. 37 Lakhs Start Date: 01 Feb 2018 End Date: 31 Jan 2020
(7) Design and Development of Metal Oxide Hole Transporting Material (HTM) based Inverted
Perovskite Solar Cell (iPSC) Under Ambient Conditions
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit Rs. 21.18 Lakhs Start Date: 26 sep 2018 End Date: 25 Sep 2023
(1) (1) Design and Fabrication of Germanium on Silicon near infrared photodetectors
PI: Saravanan Rajamani Rs. 19.20 Lakhs Start Date: 09 Aug 2017 End Date: 08 Aug 2019
(2) (2) Unnat Bharat Abhiyan
PI: Ananya Debnath Rs. 3.77 Lakhs Start Date: 06 Mar 2017 End Date: 05 Mar 2020
(3) (3) Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (RCI)
PI: Anand Krishnan Plappally Rs. 5 Lakhs Start Date: 31 Mar 2019 End Date: 31 Mar 2020

(1) (1) Ion-Beam Synthesis and Characterization of Gallium Nitride based Nanocrystals embedded in Si based
PI: Mahesh Kumar Rs. 61.29 Lakhs Start Date: 02 May 2015 End Date: 18 Apr 2019
(2) Development of MEMS based gas sensors using RF sputtered transition metal doped ZnO Nanostructures
PI: Mahesh Kumar Rs. 24.17 Lakhs Start Date: 09 Sep 2015 End Date: 08 Sep 2018
(3) Development of Tunable RF Filter Based on Ferroelectric Thin Film by Sputtering
PI: Mahesh Kumar Rs. 15 Lakhs Start Date: 01 Mar 2016 End Date: 31 Mar 2019
(4) Algorithms for Blind Signal Detection and Demodulation
PI: Sandeep Kumar Yadav Rs. 55.24 Lakhs Start Date: 29 Jul 2015 End Date: 28 Jul 2018
(5) (5) Probing the Foundations of Quantum Mechanics in Neutrino Oscillations
PI: Subhashish Banerjee;
Co-PI: Ashutosh K. Alok Rs. 10.08 Lakhs Start Date: 01 Jan 2017 End Date: 31 Dec 2018

Department Patents
Filed Journal
Papers Conference
Papers Preprints Books Book
Chapters Total
Bioscience & Bioengineering 12 1 2 15
Chemistry 1 30 2 37
Computer Science & Engineering 4 5 2 1 12
Electrical Engineering 38 21 1 61
Humanities & Social Sciences 5 1 1 7
Mathematics 10 3 13
Mechanical Engineering 12 1 3 1 5 22
Metallurgical & Materials Engineering 11 1 12
Physics 21 1 11 1 2 38
Total 1 143 30 22 4 10 217
Patents & Publications
In 2018-19, our Faculty Members have filed 1 patent, published 143 research papers
and articles in scholarly journals. 30 of their works have been covered as conference 
proceedings; 22 preprints, 4 edited books and 10 book chapters have been contributed.

1. Sunlight driven H2 production by water splitting from nanocomposite heterostructures and preparation
method thereof
Rakesh Kumar Sharma
Application Number 201911008783 dated. 06 March 2019
1. Joshi, V., Upadhyay, A., Chhangani, D., Amanullah, A., Sharan, R. N., & Mishra, A. (2018). Gp78
involvement in cellular proliferation: Can act as a promising modulator for cell cycle regulatory proteins?
Journal of Cellular Physiology, 233(10), 6352-6368. ISSN: 1097-4652. https://doi.org/10.1002/jcp.26618
2. Kanuri, B. N., Rebello, S. C., Pathak, P., Agarwal, H., Kanshana, J. S., Awasthi, D., Gupta, A. P., Gayen, J.
R., Jagavelu, K., & Dikshit, M. (2018). Glucose and lipid metabolism alterations in liver and adipose
tissue pre-dispose p47phox knockout mice to systemic insulin resistance. Free Radical Research, 52(5), 568-
582. ISSN: 1071-5762. https://doi.org/10.1080/10715762.2018.1453136
3. Mishra, R., Upadhyay, A., Prajapati, V. K., & Mishra, A. (2018). Proteasome-mediated proteostasis: Novel
medicinal and pharmacological strategies for diseases. Medicinal Research Reviews, 38(6), 1916-1973. ISSN:
0198-6325. https://doi.org/10.1002/med.21502
4. Narula, A., Pandey, R. K., Khatoon, N., Mishra, A., & Prajapati, V. K. (2018). Excavating chikungunya
genome to design B and T cell multi-epitope subunit vaccine using comprehensive immunoinformatics
approach to control chikungunya infection. Infection, Genetics and Evolution, 61, 4–15. ISSN: 1567-1348.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.meegid.2018.03.007
5. Paul, S., & Brahma, D. (2019). An Integrated Approach for Identification of Functionally Similar
MicroRNAs in Colorectal Cancer. IEEE/ACM Transactions on Computational Biology and Bioinformatics,
16(1), 183–192. ISSN: 1557-9964. https://doi.org/10.1109/TCBB.2017.2765332
6. Sarkar, S., Gulati, K., Kairamkonda, M., Mishra, A., & Poluri, K. M. (2018). Elucidating protein-protein
interactions through computational approaches and designing small molecule inhibitors against them for
various diseases. Current Topics in Medicinal Chemistry, 18(20), 1719 - 1736. ISSN: 1568-0266.
https://doi.org/10.2174/1568026618666181025114903
7. Shahid, U., & Singh, P. (2018). Emerging Picture of Deuterosome-Dependent Centriole Amplification in
MCCs. Cells, 7(10), 152. ISSN: 2073-4409. https://doi.org/10.3390/cells7100152
8. Singh, S., & Jha, S. (2018). NLRs as Helpline in the Brain: Mechanisms and Therapeutic Implications.
Molecular Neurobiology, 55(10), 8154–8178. ISSN: 1559-1182. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12035-018-0957-4
9. Upadhyay, A., & Mishra, A. (2018). Amyloids of multiple species: are they helpful in survival? Biological
Reviews, 93(3), 1363-1386. ISSN: 1469-185X. https://doi.org/10.1111/brv.12399
10. Vijay, A., Arora, S., Gupta, S., & Chhabra, M. (2018). Halophilic starch degrading bacteria isolated from
Sambhar Lake, India, as potential anode catalyst in Microbial fuel cell: A promising process for saline
water treatment. Bioresource Technology, 256, 391-398. ISSN: 0960-8524.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biortech.2018.02.044
11. Sherine, J., Upadhyay, A., Mishra, A., Kumar, D., Pal, S., & Harinipriya, S. (2019). Ag(I) and Au(III)
Mercaptobenzothiazole complexes induced apoptotic cell death. Scientific Reports, 9(1), 621. ISSN: 2045-
2322. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-018-36801-6
12. Vijay, A., Chhabra, M., & Vincent, T. (2019). Microbial community modulates electrochemical
performance and denitrification rate in a biocathodic autotrophic and heterotrophic denitrifying
microbial fuel cell. Bioresource Technology, 272, 217–225. ISSN: 0960-8524.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biortech.2018.10.030
The following is the department-wise list of patents filed.
The following is the department-wise list of publications.

1. Paul, S., & Bansal, S. (2018). Type 2 Diabetes Gene Identification Using an Integrated Approach from
Single-Cell RNA Sequencing Data. In 2018 IEEE International Conference on Bioinformatics and
Biomedicine (BIBM) (pp. 2152–2158). Madrid, Spain: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-5488-0.
https://doi.org/10.1109/BIBM.2018.8621342
1. Joshi, V., Upadhyay, A., Amanullah, A., Mishra, R., & Mishra, A. (2019). Predicting E3 Ubiquitin Ligases
as Possible Promising Biomarkers for Brain Tumors. In K. K. Shukla, P. Sharma, & S. Misra (Eds.),
Molecular Diagnostics in Cancer Patients (pp. 43–72). Singapore: Springer Singapore. ISBN: 9789811358777.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-13-5877-7_4
2. Paul, S. (2019). Integration of miRNA and mRNA Expression Data for Understanding Etiology of
Gynecologic Cancers. In X. Lai, S. K. Gupta, & J. Vera (Eds.), Computational Biology of Non-Coding
RNA: Methods and Protocols (Vol. 1912, pp. 323–338). New York, NY: Humana Press. ISBN: 978-1-4939-
8982-9. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4939-8982-9_13
1. Bah uguna, G., Ram, P., Sharma, R. K., & Gupta, R. (2018). An Organo-fluorine Compound Mixed
Electrolyte for Ultrafast Electric Double Layer Supercapacitors. ChemElectroChem, 5(19), 2767-2773.
ISSN: 2196-0216. https://doi.org/10.1002/celc.201800908
2. Ch aubey, B., & Pal, S. (2018). Binding Interaction of Organofluorine-Serum Albumin: A Comparative
Ligand Detected 19F NMR Analysis. The Journal of Physical Chemistry B, 122(40), 9409–9418. ISSN:
1520-5207. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcb.8b06583
3. Da hiya, V., & Pal, S. (2018). The effect of paracetamol on 5 fluorouracil and bovine serum albumin
interaction: A biophysical study. AIP Conference Proceedings, 1953(1), 140012. ISSN: 0094-243X.
https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5033187
4. Gah laut, A., & Paranjothy, M. (2018). Unimolecular decomposition of formamide via direct chemical
dynamics simulations. Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics, 13(20), 8498-8505. ISSN: 1463-9084.
https://doi.org/10.1039/C8CP00541A
5. Gu pta, N., Rao, K. D. M., Srivastava, K., Gupta, R., Kumar, A., Marconnet, A. M., Fisher, T. S., &
Kulkarni, G. U. (2018). Cosmetically Adaptable Transparent Strain Sensor for Sensitively Delineating
Patterns in Small Movements of Vital Human Organs. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces, 10(50),
44126–44133. ISSN: 1944-8252. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.8b16282
6. Gu pta, R. (2018). Fabrication of stretchable compliant electrodes on PDMS with Au nanoparticles.
Bulletin of Materials Science, 41(5), 114. ISSN: 0973-7669. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12034-018-1630-2
7. Jos hi, A., Singh, R., & Kumar, A. (2018). Concurrence and three-tangle of the graph. Quantum
Information Processing, 17(12), 327. ISSN: 1573-1332. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11128-018-2085-5
8. Kri shnan, Y., Rajbangshi, P., & Paranjothy, M. (2018). Theoretical Study of Perbenzoate Anion
Decomposition Pathways in the Gas Phase. International Journal of Mass Spectrometry, 428, 8-14. ISSN:
1387-3806. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijms.2018.01.011
9. Ku mar, D., & Pal, S. (2019). Solution dynamics of 5-fluorouracil entrapped in Poly Lactic-co-Glycolic
Acid (PLGA) microsphere - A study with 1D selective NMR methods. Magnetic Resonance in Chemistry,
52(2-3), 118-128. ISSN: 1097-458X. https://doi.org/10.1002/mrc.4799
10. Lai shram, D., Shejale, K. P., Gupta, R., & Sharma, R. K. (2018). Solution Processed Hafnia
Nanoaggregates: Influence of Surface Oxygen on Catalytic Soot Oxidation. ACS Sustainable Chemistry &
Engineering, 6(9), 11286–11294. ISSN: 2168-0485. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.8b00674
11. Lai shram, D., Shejale, K. P., Gupta, R., & Sharma, R. K. (2018). Heterostructured HfO2/TiO2 spherical
nanoparticles for visible photocatalytic water remediation. Materials Letters, 231, 225-228. ISSN: 0167-
577X. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matlet.2018.08.053
12. Ma jumdar, D. J., Dey, S., Sreekumar, S. S., Das, S., Das, D., Metre, R. K., Bankura, K., & Mishra, D. (2018).
Nitrato, Pseudohalo-Linked Zn(II)/Cd(II) Schiff-Base Complexes with 1,3-Diimine Spacer Group:
Syntheses, Crystal Structures, DFT, TD-DFT and Fluorescence Studies. ChemistrySelect, 3(43), 12371–
12382. ISSN: 2365-6549. https://doi.org/10.1002/slct.201802996

13. Mu rarka, S. (2018). N-(acyloxy)phthalimides as Redox-Active Esters in Cross Coupling Reactions.
Advanced Synthesis & Catalysis, 360(9), 1735-1753. ISSN: 1615-4169.
https://doi.org/10.1002/adsc.201701615
14. Mu rarka, S., & Antonchick, A. P. (2018). Metal-catalyzed oxidative coupling of ketones and ketone
enolatess. Synthesis, 50(11), 2150-2162. ISSN: 1437-210X. https://doi.org/10.1055/s-0037-1609715
15. Na z, E. G., Godara, S., & Paranjothy, M. (2018). Direct Chemical Dynamics Simulations of H3+ + CO
Bimolecular Reaction. The Journal of Physical Chemistry A, 122 (43), 8497–8504. ISSN: 1089-5639.
https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpca.8b08671
16. Nu nes-Pereira, J., Lima, R., Choudhary, G., Sharma, P. R., Ferdov, S., Botelho, G., Sharma, R. K., &
Lanceros-Méndez, S. (2018). Highly efficient removal of fluoride from aqueous media through polymer
composite membranes. Separation and Purification Technology, 205, 1–10. ISSN: 1383-5866.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.seppur.2018.05.015
17. Nu nes-Pereira, J., Sharma, P., Fernandes, L. C., Oliveira, J., Moreira, J. A., Sharma, R. K., & Lanceros-
Mendez, S. (2018). Poly(vinylidene fluoride) composites with carbon nanotubes decorated with metal
nanoparticles. Composites Part B: Engineering, 142, 1–8. ISSN: 1359-8368.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compositesb.2017.12.047
18. Ran a, N. K., Shukla, K., Mahto, P., Jha, R. K., & Singh, V. K. (2018). A facile and highly diastereoselective
synthesis of carbocyclic spiro-pyrazolones via DABCO catalyzed Michael-Michael domino reaction.
Tetrahedron, 74(38), 5270-5279. ISSN: 0040-4020. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tet.2018.02.002
19. Kau r, H., & Kumar, A. (2019). Analyzing the efficiency of partially entangled states in Vaidman’s-type
games and its applications in Quantum Secret Sharing. International Journal of Computers and
Applications, 41 (1), 2–13. ISSN: 1206-212X. https://doi.org/10.1080/1206212X.2018.1465666
20. Pan dey, M. D., Metre, R. K., Kundu, S., Mahanti, B., Kumar, A., Gopal, K., & Chandrasekhar, V. (2019).
Luminescent Pyrene-decorated Organotin Compounds: Observation of Monomer-and Excimer Emission.
Crystal Growth & Design, 19(3), 1888–1895. ISSN: 1528-7505. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.cgd.8b01856
21. Ram , P., Gören, A., Gonçalves, R., Choudhary, G., Ferdov, S., Silva, M. M., Singhal, R., Costa, C. M.,
Sharma, R. K., & Lanceros-Méndez, S. (2018). Improved electrochemical performance of rare earth doped
LiMn1.5-xNi0.5RExO4 based composite cathodes for lithium-ion batteries. Composites Part B: Engineering,
139, 55–63. ISSN: 1359-8368. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compositesb.2017.11.054
22. She jale, K. P., Laishram, D., Gupta, R., & Sharma, R. K. (2018). Engineered ZnO-TiO2 Nanospheres for
High Performing Membrane Assimilated Photocatalytic Water Remediation and Energy Harvesting.
ChemistrySelect, 3(25), 7291–7301. ISSN: 2365-6549. https://doi.org/10.1002/slct.201800988
23. Sin gh, P., & Kumar, A. (2018). Analysing Nonlocal Correlations in Three-qubit Partially Entangled States
Under Real Conditions. International Journal of Theoretical Physics, 57(10), 3172–3189. ISSN: 1572-9575.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10773-018-3835-y
24. Sin gh, P., & Kumar, A. (2018). Analysing nonlocality robustness in multiqubit systems under noisy
conditions and weak measurements. Quantum Information Processing, 17(9), 249. ISSN: 1573-1332.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11128-018-2016-5
25. Son i, V. K., Roy, T., Dhara, S., Choudhary, G., Sharma, P. R., & Sharma, R. K. (2018). On the investigation
of acid and surfactant modification of natural clay for photocatalytic water remediation. Journal of
Materials Science, 53(14), 10095–10110. ISSN: 1573-4803. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10853-018-2308-2
26. Urg unde, A. B., Kumar, A., Shejale, K. P., Sharma, R. K., & Gupta, R. (2018). Metal Wire Networks
functionalized with Ni Alkanethiolate for Transparent and Enzymeless Glucose Sensors. ACS Applied
Nano Materials, 1(10), 5571–5580. ISSN: 2574-0970. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.8b01115
27. Ram , P., Patel, H., Singhal, R., Choudhary, G., & Sharma, R. K. (2019). On the study of mixing and
drying on electrochemical performance of spinel LiMn2O4 cathodes. Journal of Renewable and
Sustainable Energy, 11(1), 014104. ISSN: 1941-7012. https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5051583
28. Sal ian, S. R., Nayak, G., Kumari, S., Patel, S., Gowda, S., Shenoy, Y., Sugunan, S., GK, R., Managuli, R.,
Mutalik. S., Dahiya, V, Pal, S., Adiga, S. & K. Guruprasad (2019). Supplementation of biotin to sperm
preparation medium enhances fertilizing ability of spermatozoa and improves preimplantation embryo
development. Journal of Assisted Reproduction and Genetics, 36(2), 255-266. ISSN: 1573-7330.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10815-018-1323-1

29. Sha rma, P., & Sharma, R. K. (2019). Electrophilic [N—F]+ catalysed asymmetric allylation of (E)-N,1-
diphenylmethanimine. Chirality, 31(2), 91–96. ISSN: 1520-636X. https://doi.org/10.1002/chir.23039
30. Shu kla, K., Shah, S., Rana, N. K., & Singh, V. K. (2019). An efficient and highly diastereoselective
synthesis of carbocyclic spiropyrazolones via one-pot sequential dual organo-silver catalyzed Michael-
hydroalkylation reactions, 60(1), 92-97. Tetrahedron Letters. ISSN: 0040-4039.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tetlet.2018.11.064
1. Kau r, H., & Kumar, A. (2018). Analysing the role of entanglement in the three-qubit Vaidman’s game.
ArXiv:1807.05262 [Quant-Ph]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1807.05262
2. Sriv astava, A., Karmakar, S., & Debnath, A. (2018). Slow Relaxations of Chemically Confined Hydration
Layers near Lipid Bilayers: Dynamical Heterogeneities above Supercooling. ArXiv:1808.03933 [Cond-
Mat]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1808.03933
1. Ark in, E. M., Banik, A., Carmi, P., Citovsky, G., Katz, M. J., Mitchell, J. S. B., & Simakov, M. (2018).
Selecting and covering colored points. Discrete Applied Mathematics, 250(2018), 75-86. ISSN: 0166-218X.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dam.2018.05.011
2. Ban ik, A., Panolan, F., Raman, V., & Sahlot, V. (2018). Fréchet distance between a line and avatar point
set. Algorithmica, 80(9), 2616-2636. ISSN: 1432-0541. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00453-017-0352-y
3. Kh atua, M., Safavi, S. H., & Cheung, N. M. (2018). Sparse Laplacian Component Analysis for Internet
Traffic Anomalies Detection. IEEE Transactions on Signal and Information Processing over Networks, 4(4), 697
- 711. ISSN: 2373-776X. https://doi.org/10.1109/TSIPN.2018.2818950
4. Sha rma, D., & Chattopadhyay, C. (2018). High-level feature aggregation for fine-grained architectural
floor plan retrieval. IET Computer Vision, 12(5), 702–709. ISSN: 1751-9640. https://doi.org/10.1049/iet-
cvi.2017.0581
1. Arora, P., Banik, A., Paliwal, V. K., & Raman, V. (2018). Some (in) tractable parameterizations of coloring
and list-coloring. In Chen J., Lu P. (Eds.), Lecture Notes in Computer Science: Vol. 10823. FAW 2018:
Frontiers in Algorithmics (pp. 126–139). ISBN: 978-3-319-78455-7.
https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-78455-7_10
2. Banik, A., Choudhary, P., Lokshtanov, D., Raman, V., & Saurabh, S. (2018). A Polynomial Sized Kernel
for Tracking Paths Problem. In Bender M., Farach-Colton M., Mosteiro M. (eds) Lecture Notes in
Computer Science: Vol. 10807. LATIN 2018: Theoretical Informatics (pp. 94–107). ISBN: 978-3-319-77404-6.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-77404-6_8
3. Goyal, S., Chattopadhyay, C., & Bhatnagar, G. (2018). ASYSST: A framework for synopsis synthesis
empowering visually impaired. In Proceedings of the 2018 Workshop on Multimedia for Accessible
Human Computer Interface (pp. 17–24). Seoul, Republic of Korea: ACM. ISBN: 978-1-4503-5980-1.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3264856.3264859
4. Sharma, D., Gupta, N., Chattopadhyay, C., & Mehta, S. (2018). REXplore: A Sketch Based Interactive
Explorer for Real Estates Using Building Floor Plan Images. In 2018 IEEE International Symposium on
Multimedia (ISM) (pp. 61–64). Taichung, Taiwan: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-6857-3.
https://doi.org/10.1109/ISM.2018.00018
5. Sidhanta, S., Mukhopadhyay, S., & Golab, W. (2019). Consistify: Preserving Correctness and SLA Under
Weak Consistency. In Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Distributed Computing and
Networking (pp. 282–291). New York, NY, USA: ACM. ISBN: 978-1-4503-6094-4.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3288599.3288630
1. Sundaram, S., & Harit, G. (Eds.). (2019). Document Analysis and Recognition: 4th Workshop, DAR 2018, Held
in Conjunction with ICVGIP 2018, Hyderabad, India, December 18, 2018, Revised Selected Papers. Springer
Singapore. ISBN: 978-981-13-9361-7. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-13-9361-7

1. Kalshetti, P., Rahangdale, P., Jangra, D., Bundele, M., & Chattopadhyay, C. (2018). Antara: An Interactive
3D Volume Rendering and Visualization Framework. ArXiv:1812.04233 [Cs].
http://arxiv.org/abs/1812.04233
2. Kumar, A., Choudhary, S., Khokhar, V. S., Meena, V., & Chattopadhyay, C. (2018). Automatic Feature
Weight Determination using Indexing and Pseudo-Relevance Feedback for Multi-feature Content-Based
Image Retrieval. ArXiv:1812.04215 [Cs]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1812.04215
1. Agrawal, Abhay. V., Kumar, R., Venkatesan, S., Zakhidov, A., Yang, G., Bao, J., Kumar, M., & Kumar, M.
(2018). Photoactivated Mixed In-Plane and Edge-Enriched p-Type MoS2 Flake-Based NO2 Sensor
Working at Room Temperature. ACS Sensors, 3(5), 998–1004. ISSN: 2379-3694.
https://doi.org/10.1021/acssensors.8b00146
2. Ai, Y., Cheffena, M., Mathur, A., & Lei, H. (2018). On Physical Layer Security of Double Rayleigh Fading
Channels for Vehicular Communications. IEEE Wireless Communications Letters, 7(6), 1038 - 1041. ISSN:
2162-2337. https://doi.org/10.1109/LWC.2018.2852765
3. Bhati, V. S., Ranwa, S., & Kumar, M. (2018). Highly sensitive H2 gas sensor of Co doped ZnO
nanostructures. AIP Conference Proceedings, 1942(1), 050059. ISSN: 0094-243X.
https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5028690
4. Bhati, V. S., Ranwa, S., Rajamani, S., Kumari, K., Raliya, R., Biswas, P., & Kumar, M. (2018). Improved
Sensitivity with Low Limit of Detection of a Hydrogen Gas Sensor Based on rGO-Loaded Ni-Doped ZnO
Nanostructures. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces, 10(13), 11116–11124. ISSN: 1944-8244.
https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.7b17877
5. Dahiya, S., & Singh, A. K. (2018). Channel estimation and channel tracking for massive MIMO system in
correlated block fading channel. Digital Communications and Networks, 4(2), 138-147. ISSN: 2352-8648.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dcan.2017.07.006
6. Dahiya, S., Kumar, A., & Singh, A. K. (2018). Average power allocation based sum-rate optimization in
massive MIMO systems. Annals of Telecommunications, 73 (11–12), 689–701. ISSN: 1958-9395.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12243-018-0628-5
7. Gautam, A. R., Gaurav, K., Guerrero, J. M., & Fulwani, D. (2018). Ripple Mitigation with Improved Line-
Load Transients Response in Two-Stage DC-DC-AC Converter: Adaptive SMC Approach. IEEE
Transactions on Industrial Electronics, 65(4), 3125 - 3135. ISSN: 0278-0046.
https://doi.org/10.1109/TIE.2017.2752125
8. Goel, N., Kumar, R., & Kumar, M. (2018). Enhanced sensing response with complete recovery of MoS2
sensor under photoexcitation. AIP Conference Proceedings, 1942(1), 050060. ISSN: 0094-243X.
https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5028691
9. Goel, N., Kumar, R., Hojamberdiev, M., & Kumar, M. (2018). Enhanced carrier density in a MoS₂/Si
heterojunction-based photodetector by inverse auger process. IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices,
65(10), 4149 - 4154. ISSN: 0018-9383. https://doi.org/10.1109/TED.2018.2839913
10. Goel, N., Kumar, R., Mishra, M., Gupta, G., & Kumar, M. (2018). Determination of band alignment at
two-dimensional MoS2/Si van der Waals heterojunction. Journal of Applied Physics, 123(22), 225301.
ISSN: 0021-8979. https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5030557
11. Goel, N., Kumar, R., Roul, B., Kumar, M., & Krupanidhi, S. B. (2018). Wafer-scale synthesis of a uniform
film of few-layer MoS2 on GaN for 2D heterojunction ultraviolet photodetector. Journal of Physics D:
Applied Physics, 51(37), 374003. ISSN: 0022-3727. https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-6463/aad4e8
12. Jain, P. K., & Tiwari, A. K. (2018). A Robust Algorithm for Segmentation of Phonocardiography Signal
Using Tunable Quality Wavelet Transform. Journal of Medical and Biological Engineering, 38(3), 396–
410. ISSN: 2199-4757. https://doi.org/10.1007/s40846-017-0320-7
13. Kumar, R., Goel, N., & Kumar, M. (2018). NO2 sensing at room temperature using vertically aligned
MoS2 flakes network. AIP Conference Proceedings, 1942(1), 060006. ISSN: 0094-243X.
https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5028776

14. Kumar, R., Goel, N., Mishra, M., Gupta, G., Fanetti, M., Valant, M., & Kumar, M. (2018). Growth of
MoS2–MoO3 Hybrid Microflowers via Controlled Vapor Transport Process for Efficient Gas Sensing at
Room Temperature. Advanced Materials Interfaces. 5(10), 1800071. ISSN: 2196-7350.
https://doi.org/10.1002/admi.201800071
15. Kumar, R., Goel, N., Raliya, R., Biswas, P., & Kumar, M. (2018). High-performance photodetector based
on hybrid of MoS2 and reduced graphene oxide. Nanotechnology, 29(40), 404001. ISSN: 1361-6528.
https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-6528/aad2f6
16. Kumar, R., Kulriya, P. K., Mishra, M., Singh, F., Gupta, G., & Kumar, M. (2018). Highly selective and
reversible NO2 gas sensor using vertically aligned MoS2 flake networks. Nanotechnology, 29(46), 464001.
ISSN: 0957-4484. https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-6528/aade20
17. Kumari, C., Varun, I., Tiwari, S. P., & Dixit, A. (2018). Robust non-volatile bipolar resistive switching in
sol-gel derived BiFeO3 thin films. Superlattices and Microstructures, 120, 67-74. ISSN: 0749-6036.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.spmi.2018.05.008
18. Mathur, A., Ai, Y., Bhatnagar, M. R., Cheffena, M., & Ohtsuki, T. (2018). On Physical Layer Security of α-
η-κ-μ Fading Channels. IEEE Communications Letters, 22(10), 2168 - 2171. ISSN: 1558-2558.
https://doi.org/10.1109/LCOMM.2018.2860020
19. Ai, Y., Mathur, A., Cheffena, M., Bhatnagar, M., & Lei, H. (2019). Physical Layer Security of Hybrid
Satellite-FSO Cooperative Systems. IEEE Photonics Journal, 11(1), 1-14. ISSN: 1943-0655.
https://doi.org/10.1109/JPHOT.2019.2892618
20. Bhati, V. S., Sheela, D., Roul, B., Raliya, R., Biswas, P., Kumar, M., Roy, M. S., Nanda, K. K., Krupanidhi,
S. B. & Kumar, M. (2019). NO2 gas sensing performance enhancement based on reduced graphene oxide
decorated V2O5 thin films. Nanotechnology, 30(22), 224001. ISSN: 0957-4484.
https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-6528/ab0321
21. Gangavarapu, S., Rathore, A. K., & Fulwani, D. M. (2019). Three phase single stage isolated cuk based
PFC converter. IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, 34(2), 1798 - 1808. ISSN: 0885-8993.
https://doi.org/10.1109/TPEL.2018.2829080
22. Hojamberdiev, M., Zhu, G., Lu, H., Kumar, M., Wang, M., & Gao, J. (2019). MoS2 quantum dots-
modified porous β-Bi2O3 microspheres with enhanced visible-light-induced photocatalytic activity for
Bisphenol A degradation and NO removal. Journal of Materials Science: Materials in Electronics, 30(3),
2610-2621. ISSN: 1573-482X. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10854-018-0536-5
23. Joshi, V., Tiwari, S. P., & Shrivastava, M. (2019). Part I: Physical Insight Into Carbon-Doping-Induced
Delayed Avalanche Action in GaN Buffer in AlGaN/GaN HEMTs. IEEE Transactions on Electron
Devices, 66(1), 561 - 569. ISSN: 1557-9646. https://doi.org/10.1109/TED.2018.2878770
24. Joshi, V., Tiwari, S. P., & Shrivastava, M. (2019). Part II: Proposals to Independently Engineer Donor and
Acceptor Trap Concentrations in GaN Buffer for Ultrahigh Breakdown AlGaN/GaN HEMTs. IEEE
Transactions on Electron Devices, 66(1), 570 - 577. ISSN: 1557-9646.
https://doi.org/10.1109/TED.2018.2878787
25. Mahato, A. K., Raghuwanshi, V., Bharti, D., Varun, I., Prasad, N., Roy, M. S., & Tiwari, S. P. (2019). TIPS-
pentacene/Copper (II) phthalocyanine bi-layer photosensitive organic field-effect transistors. Synthetic
Metals, 248, 110–119. ISSN: 0379-6779. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.synthmet.2019.01.011
26. Mathur, A., Bhatnagar, M. R., Ai, Y., & Cheffena, M. (2018). Performance Analysis of a Dual-Hop
Wireless-Power Line Mixed Cooperative System. IEEE Access, 6, 34380–34392. ISSN: 2169-3536.
https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2018.2848306
27. Tripathi, S., Mohan, A., & Yadav, S. (2018). Performance study of a fractal UWB MIMO antenna for on-
body WBAN applications. Analog Integrated Circuits and Signal Processing, 95(2), 249-258. ISSN: 1573-1979.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10470-018-1138-0
28. Varun, I., Bharti, D., Mahato, A. K., Raghuwanshi, V., & Tiwari, S. P. (2018). Investigation of resistive
switching in PVP and ultra-thin HfOx based bilayer hybrid RRAM. Solid State Ionics, 325, 196–200. ISSN:
0167-2738. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ssi.2018.08.003
29. Raghuwanshi, V., Bharti, D., Mahato, A. K., Varun, I., & Tiwari, S. P. (2019). Solution-Processed Organic
Field-Effect Transistors with High Performance and Stability on Paper Substrates. ACS Applied
Materials & Interfaces, 11(8), 8357–8364. ISSN: 1944-8244. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.8b21404

30. Rahul, K., & Tiwari, A. K. (2018). Saliency enabled compression in JPEG framework. IET Image
Processing, 12(7), 1142–1149. ISSN: 1751-9659. https://doi.org/10.1049/iet-ipr.2017.0554
31. Rajamani, S., Arora, K., Belov, A., Korolev, D., Nikolskaya, A., Usov, Y., Pavlov, D., Mikhaylov, A.,
Tetelbaum, D., Kumar, M., & Kumar, M. (2018). Enhanced Solar-blind Photodetection Performance of
Encapsulated Ga2O3 Nanocrystals in Al2O3 Matrix. IEEE Sensors Journal, 18(10), 4046-4052. ISSN: 1530-
437X. https://doi.org/10.1109/JSEN.2018.2821562
32. Rajamani, Saravanan, Arora, K., Konakov, A., Belov, A., Korolev, D., Nikolskaya, A., Mikhaylov, A. N.,
Surodin, S., Kryukov, R., Nikolichev, D., Sushkov, A., Pavlov, D., Tetelbaum, D., Kumar, M., & Kumar,
M. (2018). Deep UV narrow-band photodetector based on ion beam synthesized indium oxide quantum
dots in Al2O3 matrix. Nanotechnology. 29(30), 305603. ISSN: 1361-6528. https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-
6528/aabfaf
33. Rathore, B., & Shaik, A. G. (2018). Wavelet-alienation based protection scheme for multi-terminal
transmission line. Electric Power Systems Research, 161, 8–16. ISSN: 0378-7796.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2018.03.025
34. Sarkar, A., Mukherjee, S., Sharma, A., Biswas, A., & Akhtar, M. J. (2018). SIW based quad-beam leaky-
wave antenna with polarization diversity for four quadrant scanning applications. IEEE Transactions on
Antennas and Propagation, 66(8), 3918 - 3925. ISSN: 0018-926X.
https://doi.org/10.1109/TAP.2018.2839887
35. Shaik, A. G., & Mahela, O. P. (2018). Power quality assessment and event detection in hybrid power
system. Electric Power Systems Research, 161, 26–44. ISSN: 0378-7796.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2018.03.026
36. Shinde, T. S., & Tiwari, A. K. (2018). Efficient direction-oriented search algorithm for block motion
estimation. IET Image Processing, 12(9), 1557–1566. ISSN: 1751-9667. https://doi.org/10.1049/iet-
ipr.2017.0641
37. Singh, M., & Shaik, A. G. (2019). Faulty bearing detection, classification and location in a three-phase
induction motor based on Stockwell transform and support vector machine. Measurement, 131, 524–533.
ISSN: 0263-2241. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.measurement.2018.09.013
38. Tripathi, S., Upadhyay, A., Kotyan, S., & Yadav, S. (2019). Analysis and Comparison of Different Fuzzy
Inference Systems Used in Decision Making for Secondary Users in Cognitive Radio Network. Wireless
Personal Communications, 104(3), 1175–1208. ISSN: 1572-834X. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11277-018-
6075-9
1. Baghel, N., & Mukherjee, S. (2018). Design of a Substrate Integrated Coaxial Line Based 2x4 Slot
Antenna Array for Millimeter Wave Application. In 2018 Asia-Pacific Microwave Conference (APMC)
(pp. 1561–1563). Kyoto, Japan: IEEE. ISBN: 978-4-902339-45-1.
https://doi.org/10.23919/APMC.2018.8617652
2. Baghel, N., & Mukherjee, S. (2018). Design of Substrate Integrated Coaxial Line based Broadband Dipole
Antenna for Millimeter Wave Application. In 2018 IEEE Indian Conference on Antennas and Propogation
(InCAP) (pp. 1–4). Hyderabad, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-7060-6.
https://doi.org/10.1109/INCAP.2018.8770964
3. Bandaru, D. P., & Shaik, A. G. (2018). Wind Farm Connected Distribution System Protection Using
Wavelet-Alienation Coefficient Technique. In 2018 3rd International Conference for Convergence in
Technology (I2CT) (pp. 1–6). Pune, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-4273-3.
https://doi.org/10.1109/I2CT.2018.8529579
4. Bhatt, A., Syed, A., & Khandelwal, A. (2018). Designer Oriented Analysis of an All-Optical Binary Delta
Sigma Modulator. In 2018 Asia Communications and Photonics Conference (ACP) (pp. 1–3). Hangzhou,
China: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-6158-1. https://doi.org/10.1109/ACP.2018.8596001
5. Chawda, G. S., & Shaik, A. G. (2018). Fuzzy Logic Based Control Algorithm for DSTATCOM Connected
to Weak AC Grid. In 2018 2nd International Conference on Power, Energy and Environment: Towards
Smart Technology (ICEPE) (pp. 1–6). Shillong, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-4769-1.
https://doi.org/10.1109/EPETSG.2018.8659093

6. Dhillon, D., & Chouhan, R. (2018). Noise-aided edge-preserving image denoising using non-local means
with stochastic resonance. In 2018 IEEE Global Conference on Signal and Information Processing
(GlobalSIP) (pp. 21–25). Anaheim, CA, USA: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72811-295-4.
https://doi.org/10.1109/GlobalSIP.2018.8646493
7. Gangwar, A. K., & Shaik, A. G. (2018). Wavelet Based Transmission Line Protection Scheme Using
Centroid Difference and Support Vector Regression. In 2018 7th International Conference on Renewable
Energy Research and Applications (ICRERA) (pp. 1184–1189). Paris, France: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-5982-
3. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICRERA.2018.8566905
8. Gangwar, A. K., & Shaik, A. G. (2018). Centroidal Difference of Wavelet Approximate Coefficients Based
Protection Scheme for Transmission Line. In 2018 2nd International Conference on Power, Energy and
Environment: Towards Smart Technology (ICEPE) (pp. 1–5). Shillong, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-
4769-1. https://doi.org/10.1109/EPETSG.2018.8659346
9. Gautam, A. R., Rathore, N., & Fulwani, D. (2018). Second-order Harmonic Ripple Mitigation: A Solution
for the Micro-Inverter Applications. In 2018 IEEE Industry Applications Society Annual Meeting (IAS)
(pp. 1–6). Portland, OR, USA: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-4536-9. https://doi.org/10.1109/IAS.2018.8544687
10. Jajoo, G., Yadav, Y. K., & Yadav, S. (2018). Blind Signal Digital Modulation Classification through k-
medoids Clustering. In 2018 IEEE International Conference on Advanced Networks and
Telecommunications Systems (ANTS) (pp. 1–5). Indore, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-8134-3.
https://doi.org/10.1109/ANTS.2018.8710107
11. Jangir, S., Choudhary, R., Rathore, B., & Shaik, A. G. (2018). Transmission Line Fault Detection and
Classification Using Alienation Coefficient Technique for Current Signals. In 2018 3rd International
Conference for Convergence in Technology (I2CT) (pp. 1–6). Pune, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-4273-3.
https://doi.org/10.1109/I2CT.2018.8529447
12. Krishna, I. S., & Mukherjee, S. (2018). A Substrate Integrated Coaxial Line Dual-Band Balun for 5G
Applications. In 2018 Asia-Pacific Microwave Conference (APMC) (pp. 1190–1192). Kyoto, Japan: IEEE.
ISBN: 978-4-902339-45-1. https://doi.org/10.23919/APMC.2018.8617540
13. Krishna, I. S., & Mukherjee, S. (2018). Design of Folded Substrate Integrated Coaxial Line Wideband
Balun for K-band Applications. In 2018 IEEE Indian Conference on Antennas and Propogation (InCAP) (pp.
1–4). Hyderabad, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-7060-6. https://doi.org/10.1109/INCAP.2018.8770732
14. Rathore, B., & Shaik, A. G. (2018). Fault Analysis Using Alienation Technique for Three-Terminal
Transmission Line. In 2018 2nd International Conference on Power, Energy and Environment: Towards
Smart Technology (ICEPE) (pp. 1–6). Shillong, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-4769-1.
https://doi.org/10.1109/EPETSG.2018.8658370
15. Rathore, N., Gautam, A. R., & Fulwani, D. (2018). Adaptive Sliding mode based Loss Free resistor for
Power Factor Correction Application. In 2018 IEEE Industry Applications Society Annual Meeting (IAS)
(pp. 1–6). Portland, OR, USA: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-4536-9. https://doi.org/10.1109/IAS.2018.8544659
16. Shah, J., Desai, S., & Shaik, A. G. (2018). Detection and Classification of High Impedance Faults in
Transmission Line Using Alienation-based Analysis on Voltage Signals. In 2018 3rd International
Conference for Convergence in Technology (I2CT) (pp. 1–6). Pune, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-4273-3.
https://doi.org/10.1109/I2CT.2018.8529155
17. Singh, M., & Shaik, A. G. (2018). Location of Defective Bearing in Three-Phase Induction Motor Using
Stockwell Transform and Support Vector Machine. In 2018 2nd International Conference on Power, Energy
and Environment: Towards Smart Technology (ICEPE) (pp. 1–5). Shillong, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-
4769-1. https://doi.org/10.1109/EPETSG.2018.8658606
18. Chawda, G. S., & Shaik, A. G. (2019). Performance Evaluation of Adaline Controlled Dstatcom for
Multifarious Load in Weak AC Grid. In 2019 IEEE PES GTD Grand International Conference and Exposition
Asia (GTD Asia) (pp. 356–361). Bangkok, Thailand: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-7434-5.
https://doi.org/10.1109/GTDAsia.2019.8715994
19. Mukherjee, S. (2019). Design of SIW based Millimeter wave Chipless Identification Tag for Low Cost
Application. In 2019 URSI Asia-Pacific Radio Science Conference (AP-RASC) (pp. 1–4). New Delhi, India:
IEEE. ISBN: 978-90-825987-5-9. https://doi.org/10.23919/URSIAP-RASC.2019.8738540

20. Raghuwanshi, V., Mahato, A. K., Bharti, D., Varun, I., & Tiwari, S. P. (2019). Copper (II) Phthalocyanine
based Organic Field-Effect Transistors for UV Photo-detection. In 2019 Electron Devices Technology and
Manufacturing Conference (EDTM) (pp. 437–439). Singapore: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-6508-4.
https://doi.org/10.1109/EDTM.2019.8731055
21. Singh, M., & Shaik, A. G. (2019). Broken Rotor Bar Fault Diagnosis of a Three-phase Induction Motor
using Discrete Wavelet Transform. In 2019 IEEE PES GTD Grand International Conference and Exposition
Asia (GTD Asia) (pp. 13–17). Bangkok, Thailand: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-7434-5.
https://doi.org/10.1109/GTDAsia.2019.8715925
1. Mazumdar, S., Singh, A., Dutta, S., Yadav, S. K., & Guha, P. (2019). From Sharma-Mittal to von-
Neumann Entropy of a Graph. https://arxiv.org/abs/1902.07548v1
1. Chaudhuri, M., & Thimm, V. (2018). Postcolonial Intersections: Asia on the Move. Transfers:
Interdisciplinary Journal of Mobility Studies, 8(3), 28–35. ISSN: 2045-4813, 2045-4821.
https://doi.org/10.3167/TRANS.2018.080303
2. Mahler, S. J., Cogua-López, J., & Chaudhuri, M. (2018). Expressing similarities and differences: Latin@
voices from metropolitan Miami. Latino Studies, 16(1), 21–42. ISSN: 1476-3443.
https://doi.org/10.1057/s41276-018-0116-0
3. Maidullah, S., & Sharma, A. (2019). Gender difference in information processing limit during online
decision making. Journal of Management Research and Analysis, 6(1), 14–23. ISSN: 2394-2770.
https://doi.org/10.18231/j.jmra.2019.004
4. Narayanan V, H. (2018). Freedom, responsibility and jurisprudence. Balkan Journal of Philosophy, 10(1),
55–62. ISSN: 2367-5438. https://doi.org/10.5840/bjp20181017
5. Sharma, A., & Dewangan, R. L. (2018). Indian socio-cultural conception of wisdom: does it follow
universal understanding? Journal of Psychology and Behavioral Science, 6(1), 5-19. ISSN: 2374-2399.
https://doi.org/10.15640/jpbs.v6n1a2
1. Slovic, S, Rangarajan, S., & Sarveswaran, V. (Eds.). (2019). Routledge Handbook of Ecocriticism and
Environmental Communication. Routledge. ISBN: 978-1-351-68270-1.
https://doi.org/10.4324/9781315167343
1. Chaudhuri, M., Thimm, V., & Mahler, S. J. (2019). Scaling Educational Policy and Practice
Intersectionally: Historical and Contemporary Cases from South and Southeast Asia. In O. Hankivsky &
J. S. Jordan-Zachery (Eds.), The Palgrave Handbook of Intersectionality in Public Policy (pp. 367–385).
Cham: Palgrave Macmillan. ISBN: 978-3-319-98473-5. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-98473-5_16
1. Bhati, A., Hiremath, K. R., & Dixit, V. (2018). Bandwidth enhancement of Salisbury screen microwave
absorber using wire metamaterial. Microwave and Optical Technology Letters, 60(4), 891–897. ISSN: 0895-
2477. https://doi.org/10.1002/mop.31078
2. Bhati, A., Hiremath, K. R., & Dixit, V. (2018). Bandwidth enhancement of triple layer microwave
absorber using metallic square patch. Applied Physics A, 124(12), 798. ISSN: 1432-0630.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s00339-018-2219-8
3. Bhati, A., Hiremath, K. R., & Dixit, V. (2018). Design and Characterization of Square Patch Salisbury
Screen Microwave Absorber. Progress In Electromagnetics Research Letters, 76, 7–12. ISSN: 1937-6480.
http://www.jpier.org/PIERL/pier.php?paper=18032402
4. Bhatnagar, G., & Wu, Q. M. J. (2019). Fractal dimension based framework for night vision fusion.
IEEE/CAA Journal of Automatica Sinica, 6(1), 220 - 227. ISSN: 2329-9266.
https://doi.org/10.1109/JAS.2018.7511102

5. Choudhary, S., & Hiremath, K. R. (2018). Experimental studies of absorption bandwidth enhancement in
random metamaterials. Applied Physics A, 124(12), 829. ISSN: 1432-0630.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s00339-018-2250-9
6. Liu, Z., Blasch, E., Bhatnagar, G., John, V., Wu, W., & Blum, R. S. (2018). Fusing synergistic information
from multi-sensor images: An overview from implementation to performance assessment. Information
Fusion, 42(Supplement C), 127–145. ISSN: 1566-2535. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.inffus.2017.10.010
7. Sahu, A., Hiremath, K., & Dixit, A. (2018). Limiting efficiency factors and their consequences on
quantum dot sensitized solar cells: a detailed balance study. Applied Physics A, 124(8), 541. ISSN: 1432-
0630. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00339-018-1963-0
8. Sahu, A., Tirosh, S., Hiremath, K. R., Zaban, A., & Dixit, A. (2018). A novel process for sensitization and
infiltration of quantum dots in mesoporous metal oxide matrix for efficient solar photovoltaics response.
Solar Energy, 169, 488–497. ISSN: 0038-092X. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.solener.2018.04.058
9. Sharma, P., & Raghav, M. (2018). Dynamics of Non-Autonomous Discrete Dynamical Systems. Topology
Proceedings, 52, 45–59. ISSN: 2331-1290. http://topology.auburn.edu/tp/reprints/v52/tp52004p1.pdf
10. Singh, S. P., & Bhatnagar, G. (2018). A new robust watermarking system in integer DCT domain. Journal
of Visual Communication and Image Representation, 53, 86–101. ISSN: 1047-3203.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvcir.2018.03.006
1. Raghav, M., & Sharma, P. (2018). Dynamics of Finitely Generated Non-Autonomous Systems.
ArXiv:1810.01167 [Math]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1810.01167
2. Singh, R., Vijay, V., & Bapat, R. B. (2018). Algorithm for B-partitions, parameterized complexity of the
matrix determinant and permanent. https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.04670
3. Sharma, P., & Kumar, D. (2019). Multidimensional Shifts and Finite Matrices. ArXiv:1901.07533 [Math].
http://arxiv.org/abs/1901.07533
1. Gupta, S., Satankar, R. K., Kaurwar, A., Aravind, U., Sharif, M., & Plappally, A. (2018). Household
production of ceramic water filters in Western Rajasthan, India. International Journal for Service
Learning in Engineering, Humanitarian Engineering and Social Entrepreneurship, 13(1), 53–66. ISSN:
1555-9033. https://doi.org/10.24908/ijsle.v13i1.11150
2. Jain, A., Sharma, A., Borana, S. L., Ravindra, B., & Mangalhara, J. P. (2018). Study and Analysis of
Exhaust Emission of Diesel Vehicles using Thermal IR Imagers. Defence Science Journal, 68(6), 533–539.
ISSN: 0976464X. https://doi.org/10.14429/dsj.68.12701
3. Joshi, R., & Chhibber, R. (2018). Design and development of SiO2-Al2O3-B2O3-Na2O based glass sealant
for the glass-metal joint. Ceramics International, 44(16), 19084-19098. ISSN: 0272-8842.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ceramint.2018.07.172
4. Joshi, R., & Chhibber, R. (2018). Effect of SiO2/B2O3 ratio on the thermophysical and wetting properties
of borosilicate glass sealant for glass-metal joint. Journal of Materials Processing Technology, 259, 186–194.
ISSN: 0924-0136. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmatprotec.2018.04.028
5. Joshi, R., & Chhibber, R. (2018). Failure study of compression glass-metal joint for parabolic trough
receiver tube application. Materials Today: Proceedings, 5(7, Part 1), 14847–14851. ISSN: 2214-7853.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matpr.2018.04.017
6. Joshi, R., & Chhibber, R. (2018). High Temperature Wettability Studies for Development of Unmatched
Glass-Metal Joints in Solar Receiver Tube. Renewable Energy, 119, 282-289. ISSN: 0960-1481.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2017.12.020
7. Moges, T. M., Desai, K. A., & Rao, P. V. M. (2018). Modeling of cutting force, tool deflection, and surface
error in micro-milling operation. The International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology,
98(9–12), 2865–2881. ISSN: 1433-3015. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00170-018-2415-x
8. Monde, A. D., & Chakraborty, P. R. (2018). Prediction of Cooling Curves for Controlled Unidirectional
Solidification under the Influence of Shrinkage: A Semi-analytical Approach. Metallurgical and Materials
Transactions B, 49 (6), 3306-3316. ISSN: 1543-1916. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11663-018-1420-7

9. Prasanth, C., Harsha, C. S., & Pratiher, B. (2018). Electrostatic pull-in analysis of a nonuniform micro-
resonator undergoing large elastic deflection. Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part C:
Journal of Mechanical Engineering Science, 212(18), 3337-3350. ISSN: 0954-4062.
https://doi.org/10.1177/0954406217736079
10. Sharma, L., & Chhibber, R. (2018). Mechanical properties and hydrogen induced cracking behaviour of
API X70 SAW weldments. International Journal of Pressure Vessels and Piping, 165, 193-207. ISSN: 0308-
0161. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpvp.2018.06.013
11. Sharma, L., & Chhibber, R. (2019). Effect of Heat Treatment on Mechanical Properties and Corrosion
Behaviour of API X70 Linepipe Steel in Different Environments. Transactions of the Indian Institute of
Metals, 72(1), 93-110. ISSN: 0975-1645. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12666-018-1465-y
12. Verma, V. K., Tripathi, B., Rana, K. B., & Chhibber, R. (2018). Factors Affecting the Performance of
Glass–Metal Seal of Solar Receiver Tubes: A Review. International Journal of Applied Engineering
Research, 13(8), 12. ISSN: 0973-9769. http://www.ripublication.com/ijaerspl2018/ijaerv13n8spl_18.pdf
1. Sakthivel, T., & Venkatesan, C. (2018). Estimation of handling quality parameters of a rotorcraft using
open-loop linearized and nonlinear flight dynamic models (Vol. 2, pp. 867–879). Presented at the 44th
European Rotorcraft Forum 2018, ERF 2018, Delft, Netherlands: Netherlands Association of Aeronautical
Engineers. ISBN: 978-1-5108-7964-5.
1. Raina, D., Gora, S., & Shah, S. V. (2019). Modeling and Estimation of Closed-Loop Impact for Multi-arm
Space Robot While Capturing a Tumbling Orbiting Object. In D. N. Badodkar & T. A. Dwarakanath
(Eds.), Machines, Mechanism and Robotics (pp. 561–570). Springer, Singapore. ISBN: 978-981-10-8597-0.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-8597-0_48
2. Shastry, S., Avaneesh, R., Desai, K. A., & Shah, S. V. (2018). Optimal Design of a Stewart–Gough
Platform for Multidirectional 3-D Printing. In S. S. Pande & U. S. Dixit (Eds.), Precision Product-Process
Design and Optimization (pp. 1–29). Singapore: Springer. ISBN: 978-981-10-8767-7.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-8767-7_1
3. Tyagi, H., Agarwal, A. K., Chakraborty, P. R., & Powar, S. (2018). Introduction to Applications of Solar
Energy. In H. Tyagi, A. K. Agarwal, P. R. Chakraborty, & S. Powar (Eds.), Applications of Solar Energy (pp.
3–10). Singapore: Springer. ISBN: 9789811333026. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-13-3302-6_1
4. Monde, A. D., Shrivastava, A., & Chakraborty, P. R. (2018). Solar Thermal Energy Storage. In H. Tyagi,
A. K. Agarwal, P. R. Chakraborty, & S. Powar (Eds.), Applications of Solar Energy (pp. 131–162). Singapore:
Springer. ISBN: 9789811333026. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7206-2_8
5. Verma, A., Satish, & Chakraborty, P. R. (2018). Water–Lithium Bromide Absorption Chillers for Solar
Cooling. In H. Tyagi, A. K. Agarwal, P. R. Chakraborty, & S. Powar (Eds.), Applications of Solar Energy
(pp. 209–232). Singapore: Springer. ISBN: 9789811333026. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7206-2_11
1. Tyagi, H., Agarwal, A. K., Chakraborty, P. R. & Powar, S. (2018). Energy, Environment, and Sustainability
(ENENSU): Applications of Solar Energy. Singapore: Springer Nature Singapore Pte. Ltd. ISBN: 978-981-10-
7205-5. https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007%2F978-981-10-7206-2
1. Naveen, B., Shah, S. V., & Misra, A. K. (2018). Momentum Model-based Minimal Parameter
Identification of a Space Robot. ArXiv:1809.00367 [Cs]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1809.00367
2. Ravindra, B. (2018). Forecasting solar radiation during dust storms using deep learning.
ArXiv:1808.10854 [Physics]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1808.10854
3. Tallamraju, R., Salunkhe, D. H., Rajappa, S., Ahmad, A., Karlapalem, K., & Shah, S. V. (2019). Motion
Planning for Multi-Mobile-Manipulator Payload Transport Systems. ArXiv:1903.07758 [Cs].
http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.07758

1. Chougule, S., Sheed, D., Prabhu, N., Kashyap, B. P., Jha, K., & Singh, R. K. P. (2018). Multipass-friction
Stir Processing (MFSP) of Ti-6Al-4V Alloy and Investigation of Flow Properties. IOP Conference Series:
Materials Science and Engineering, 422, 012017. ISSN: 1757-899X. https://doi.org/10.1088/1757-
899X/422/1/012017
2. Dilip Chandra Kumar, G., Anil Kumar, V., Gupta, R. K., Narayana Murty, S. V. S., & Kashyap, B. P.
(2019). Effect of Strain Rate and Temperature on the Tensile Flow Behavior and Microstructure Evolution
in Fe-0.3 Pct C-CrMoV Grade Steel. Metallurgical and Materials Transactions A, 50(1), 161–178. ISSN: 1543-
1940. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11661-018-4963-y
3. Jagadeesh Babu, S. M., Narayana Murty, S. V. S., Prabhu, N., Kapoor, R., Singh, R. N., & Kashyap, B. P.
(2019). Effects of Temporary Alloying and Severe Plastic Deformation on Microstructure Evolution and
Mechanical Properties of Ti-Alloys: A Comparative Study. Transactions of the Indian Institute of Metals.
ISSN: 0975-1645. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12666-019-01594-3
4. Kashyap, B. P. (2018). Understanding the Concurrent Microstructural Evolution and Its Impact on
Superplastic Characteristics: An overview. Letters on Materials, 8(4s), 524–531. ISSN: 2218-5046.
https://doi.org/10.22226/2410-3535-2018-4-524-531
5. Sekhar, K. C., Kashyap, B. P., Kumar, M. S., & Sangal, S. (2018). Strengthening of Thin Sheet Metals for
Advanced Structural Applications by Various Notch Wavy Rolling Techniques. Materials Today:
Proceedings, 5(9, Part 1), 16871–16879. ISSN: 2214-7853. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matpr.2018.04.089
6. Sharma, B., Singh, A., Sarma, T. K., Sardana, N., & Pal, A. (2018). Chirality control to multi-stimuli
responsive and self-healing supramolecular metallo-hydrogels. New Journal of Chemistry, 42(8), 6427-6432.
ISSN: 1369-9261. https://doi.org/10.1039/C8NJ00218E
7. Sharma, R. K., Bind, A. K., Avinash, G., Singh, R. N., Tewari, A., & Kashyap, B. P. (2018). Effect of radial
hydride fraction on fracture toughness of CWSR Zr-2.5%Nb pressure tube material between ambient and
300 °C temperatures. Journal of Nuclear Materials, 508, 546-555. ISSN: 0022-3115.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnucmat.2018.06.003
8. Sharma, R. K., Tewari, A., Singh, R. N., & Kashyap, B. P. (2018). Optimum shape and orientation of δ-
hydride precipitate in α-zirconium matrix for different temperatures. Journal of Alloys and Compounds,
742, 804–813. ISSN: 0925-8388. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2017.12.085
9. Sharma, S., Kumar, B. R., Kashyap, B. P., & Prabhu, N. (2018). Effects of concurrent strain induced
martensite formation on tensile and texture properties of 304L stainless steel of varying grain size
distribution. Materials Science and Engineering: A. 725, 215-227ISSN: 0921-5093.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.msea.2018.03.099
10. Sharma, S., Ravi Kumar, B., Kashyap, B. P., & Prabhu, N. (2018). Effect of stored strain energy
heterogeneity on microstructure evolution of 90% cold rolled AISI 304L stainless steel during interrupted
annealing treatment. Materials Characterization, 140, 72–85. ISSN: 1044-5803.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matchar.2018.03.036
11. Bhattacharyya, A., & Maurice, D. (2019). Residual stresses in functionally graded thermal barrier
coatings. Mechanics of Materials, 129, 50–56. ISSN: 0167-6636.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mechmat.2018.11.002
1. Jagadeesh Babu, S. M., Narayana Murty, S. V. S., Prabhu, N., & Kashyap, B. P. (2018). Effect of caliber
rolling temperature on room and elevated temperature tensile properties of Ti-6Al-4V alloy (pp. 670–
679). Presented at the Materials Science and Technology 2018, MS and T 2018, Columbus, USA:
Association for Iron and Steel Technology. ISBN: 978-0-87339-768-1.
https://doi.org/10.7449/2018/MST_2018_670_679
1. Alok, A. K., Kumar, D., Kumar, J., Kumbhakar, S., & Sankar, S. U. (2018). New physics solutions for RD
and RD∗. Journal of High Energy Physics, 2018(9), 152. ISSN: 1029-8479.
https://doi.org/10.1007/JHEP09(2018)152
2. Alok, A. K., Kumar, D., Kumbhakar, S., & Sankar, S. U. (2018). Resolution of RD/RD⁎ puzzle. Physics
Letters B, 784(10), 16-20. ISSN: 0370-2693. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physletb.2018.07.001

3. Arumugam, S., Sivaprakash, P., Dixit, A., Chaurasiya, R., Govindaraj, L., Sathiskumar, M., Chatterjee, S.
& Suryanarayanan, R. (2019). Complex magnetic structure and magnetocapacitance response in a non-
oxide NiF 2 system. Scientific Reports, 9(1), 3200. ISSN: 2045-2322. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-019-
39083-8
4. Dixit, K., Alok, A. K., Banerjee, S., & Kumar, D. (2018). Geometric phase and neutrino mass hierarchy
problem. Journal of Physics G: Nuclear and Particle Physics, 45(8), 085002. ISSN: 1361-6471.
https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-6471/aac454
5. Dixit, K., Naikoo, J., Banerjee, S., & Alok, A. K. (2018). Quantum correlations and the neutrino mass
degeneracy problem. The European Physical Journal C, 78(11), 914. ISSN: 1434-6052.
https://doi.org/10.1140/epjc/s10052-018-6376-x
6. Dutta, S., Adhikari, B., & Banerjee, S. (2019). Condition for zero and nonzero discord in graph Laplacian
quantum states. International Journal of Quantum Information, 17(02), 1950018. ISSN: 0219-7499.
https://doi.org/10.1142/S0219749919500187
7. Ghosh, S. (2018). Signature of phase singularities in diffusive regimes in disordered waveguide lattices:
interplay and qualitative analysis. Applied Optics, 57(14), 3669–3673. ISSN: 2155-3165.
https://doi.org/10.1364/AO.57.003669
8. Gupta, G. K., & Dixit, A. (2018). Theoretical studies of single and tandem Cu2ZnSn(S/Se)4 junction solar
cells for enhanced efficiency. Optical Materials, 82, 11–20. ISSN: 0925-3467.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optmat.2018.05.030
9. Kumar, N. P., Banerjee, S., & Chandrashekar, C. M. (2018). Enhanced non-Markovian behavior in
quantum walks with Markovian disorder. Scientific Reports, 8(1), 8801. ISSN: 2045-2322.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-018-27132-7
10. Kumar, N. P., Banerjee, S., Srikanth, R., Jagadish, V., & Petruccione, F. (2018). Non-Markovian Evolution:
a Quantum Walk Perspective. Open Systems & Information Dynamics, 25(03), 1850014. ISSN: 1230-1612.
https://doi.org/10.1142/S1230161218500142
11. Naikoo, J., & Banerjee, S. (2018). Entropic Leggett–Garg inequality in neutrinos and B(K) meson systems.
The European Physical Journal C, 78(7), 602. ISSN: 1434-6052. https://doi.org/10.1140/epjc/s10052-018-
6084-6
12. Naikoo, J., Thapliyal, K., Pathak, A., & Banerjee, S. (2018). Probing nonclassicality in an optically driven
cavity with two atomic ensembles. Physical Review A, 97(6), 063840. ISSN: 2469-9934.
https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevA.97.063840
13. Oberoi, D., Dagar, P., Shankar, U., Vyas, G., Kori, A., Sahu, S., & Bandyopadhyay, A. (2018). Design,
synthesis, and characterization of Fe(ii)-polymer of redox non-innocent, heteroatomic, polydentate
schiff’s base ligand: negative differential resistance and memory behaviour. New Journal of Chemistry,
42 (23), 19090-19100. ISSN: 1369-9261. https://doi.org/10.1039/C8NJ04106G
14. Sahu, A., & Dixit, A. (2018). Design criteria of transition metal dopants in TiO2/CdS photoelectrode for
enhanced photovoltaic response. Journal of Physics and Chemistry of Solids, 122, 154–161. ISSN: 0022-
3697. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpcs.2018.06.021
15. Sharma, V., Shrikant, U., Srikanth, R., & Banerjee, S. (2018). Decoherence can help quantum
cryptographic security. Quantum Information Processing, 17(8), 207. ISSN: 1573-1332.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11128-018-1974-y
16. Shrikant, U., Srikanth, R., & Banerjee, S. (2018). Non-Markovian dephasing and depolarizing channels.
Physical Review A, 98(3), 032328. ISSN: 2469-9934. https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevA.98.032328
17. Thomas, G., Siddharth, N., Banerjee, S., & Ghosh, S. (2018). Thermodynamics of non-Markovian
reservoirs and heat engines. Physical Review E, 97(6), 062108. ISSN: 2470-0053.
https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevE.97.062108
18. Verma, R. N., Kumar, R., Dixit, A., & Chandra, L. (2018). A low temperature water-cooled radiation
calorimeter for estimation of concentrated solar irradiance. Solar Energy, 167, 194–209. ISSN: 0038-092X.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.solener.2018.04.006
19. Vyas, G., Dagar, P., & Sahu, S. (2018). Exponential increase in the on–off ratio of conductance in organic
memory devices by controlling the surface morphology of the devices. Applied Physics A, 124(5), 369.
ISSN: 1432-0630. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00339-018-1791-2

20. Chaurasiya, R., & Dixit, A. (2019). Point defects induced magnetism in CdO monolayer: A theoretical
study. Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials, 469, 279–288. ISSN: 0304-8853.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmmm.2018.08.076
21. Chaurasiya, R., Dixit, A., & Pandey, R. (2019). Strain-driven thermodynamic stability and electronic
transitions in ZnX (X = O, S, Se, and Te) monolayers. Journal of Applied Physics, 125(8), 082540. ISSN:
0021-8979. https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5053680
1. Biswas, P., & Ghosh, S. (2018). Pulse Reshaping and Stable Propagation through a Chirped-clad
Dispersion Oscillating Bragg Fiber. In Advanced Photonics 2018 (BGPP, IPR, NP, NOMA, Sensors,
Networks, SPPCom, SOF) (2018), paper JTh4A.3 (p. JTh4A.3). Zurich Switzerland: Optical Society of
America. ISBN: 978-1-943580-43-9. https://doi.org/10.1364/BGPPM.2018.JTh4A.3
1. Singh, G., Kumar, R., Dixit, A., & Chandra, L. (2018). Thermal and Materials Perspective on the Design of
Open Volumetric Air Receiver for Process Heat Applications. In H. Tyagi, A. K. Agarwal, P. R.
Chakraborty, & S. Powar (Eds.), Applications of Solar Energy (pp. 113–127). Singapore: Springer. ISBN:
9789811333026. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7206-2_7
2. Bazil Raj, A. A., Sharma, V., & Banerjee, S. (2019). Quantum Based Satellite Free Space Optical
Communication and Microwave Photonics. In Arun K. Majumdar, Zabih Ghassemlooy & A. Arockia
Bazil Raj (Eds.), Principles and Applications of Free Space Optical Communications (pp. 0-0). IET, UK.
ISBN: 978-1-78561-415-6. https://www.theiet.org/resources/books/telecom/free-space.cfm
1. Banerjee, S. (2018). Open Quantum Systems: Dynamics of Nonclassical Evolution. Singapore: Springer.
ISBN: 978-981-13-3182-4. https://doi.org/ 10.1007/978-981-13-3182-4
1. Abbas, G., Alok, A. K., & Gangal, S. (2018). New physics effects in radiative leptonic Bs decay.
ArXiv:1805.02265 [Hep-Ph]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1805.02265
2. Bhattacherjee, S., Laha, A., & Ghosh, S. (2018). Origin of third order exceptional singularities and its
signature in successive state conversion. ArXiv:1806.10795 [Physics]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1806.10795
3. Bhattacherjee, S., Laha, A., & Ghosh, S. (2018). Realization of third order exceptional singularities in a
three level non-hermitian system: towards cascaded state conversion. ArXiv:1805.06505 [Quant-Ph].
http://arxiv.org/abs/1805.06505
4. Biswas, P., Gandhi, H. K., Mishra, V., & Ghosh, S. (2018). Propagation and asymmetric behavior of
optical pulses through time-dynamic loss-gain assisted media. ArXiv:1806.05608 [Physics].
http://arxiv.org/abs/1806.05608
5. Chaurasiya, R., & Dixit, A. (2018). MoSSe Janus monolayer as a promising two dimensional material for
NO2 and NO gas sensor applications. ArXiv:1812.08547 [Cond-Mat]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1812.08547
6. Laha, A., Biswas, A., & Ghosh, S. (2018). Non-adiabatic Modal Dynamics around Exceptional Points in
an All-Lossy Dual-Mode Optical Waveguide: Towards Chirality Driven Asymmetric Mode-Conversion.
https://arxiv.org/abs/1809.07617
7. Malpani, P., Alam, N., Thapliyal, K., Pathak, A., Narayanan, V., & Banerjee, S. (2018). Lower- and
higher-order nonclassical properties of photon added and subtracted displaced Fock states.
ArXiv:1808.01458 [Quant-Ph]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1808.01458
8. Naikoo, J., Alok, A. K., Banerjee, S., & Sankar, S. U. (2019). Leggett-Garg inequality in the context of
three flavour neutrino oscillation. ArXiv:1901.10859 [Hep-Ph, Physics:Quant-Ph].
http://arxiv.org/abs/1901.10859
9. Naikoo, J., Banerjee, S., & Srikanth, R. (2018). Leggett-Garg inequality violation under non-Markovian
noise. ArXiv:1806.00537 [Quant-Ph]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1806.00537
10. Sahu, A., & Dixit, A. (2018). Inverted structure perovskite solar cells: a theoretical study.
ArXiv:1806.03950 [Physics]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1806.03950
11. Sharma, V., & Banerjee, S. (2018). Analysis of Quantum Key Distribution based Satellite Communication.
ArXiv:1807.07544 [Quant-Ph]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1807.07544

1. Aashish Mathur delivered an invited talk on “Free Space Optical Communications and its applications
to 5G” in 1st International Conference on 5G Communication and Applications at VFSTR, Vadlamudi,
AP, India on 6 December 2018.
2. Soumava Mukherjee delivered an invited talk on “Aperture Antennas” at IIT Guwahati in Faculty
Development Programme on “Antenna Trends” on 02 July 2019.
3. "Heavy metal ion detection using AlGaN/GaN HEMTs as sensor" at Institute of Physics, Lobachewsky
University Nizhny Novgorod on 21 March 2019.
4. "Enhanced NO2 Sensing Performance of Vertically Aligned MoS2 via a Synergistic Vacancy and
Interface Engineering" at PSCES 2019, IIT Delhi during 6-8 March 2019.
5. "Multifunctional High-Performance MoS2/GaN Heterojunction: The Futuristic Optical and Gas
Sensors" at The 30th AGM of MRSI and the First Indian Materials Conclave at IISc Bangalore from 12-
15, February 2019.
6. "2D MoS2 based ultrafast and reversible room temperature NO2 Sensor" Workshop on Recent Trends
in Transducers and Actuators (RTTA-2019) at CEERI Pilani on 21 January 2019.
7. "Opportunities and Risks of Digitalization for Climate Change Mitigation/Adaptation and Research
Security in the MENA Region" at KAS - REMENA Experts' Meeting in Rabat Morocco during 19-21
December 2018.
8. "Development of highly selective and sensitive NO2 Sensor using 2D materials" at International
Conference on Nano-Structured Materials and Devices (ICNSMD-2018), University of Delhi during 17-
20, December 2018.
9. "MoS2 Functionalized with rGO Particles for Efficient Room Temperature NO2 Sensor" at the 3rd
International Conference on Soft Materials (ICSM 2018) at MNIT Jaipur during 9-14 December 2018.
10. "2D MoS2 based ultrafast and reversible gas Sensors" at 1st Indian National Young Academy of Science
- Frontiers of Science (INYAS-FoS) Brainstorming Meeting at Pragati Resorts Hyderabad during 9-12
December, 2018.
11. "Science Advice for a Changing World" at Tokyo Japan during 6-7 November 2018.
12. "Nanomaterials based Energy efficient Gas Sensor" at Advanced Materials for Energy and
Environmental Applications at Uzbekistan-Japan Innovation Center of Youth, National University of
Uzbekistan Tashkent during Oct 15-20 October 2018.
13. At IAP/AASSA Regional Workshop on the SDGs at Kuala Lumpur Malaysia during 13-14 August 2018.
14. "Energy efficient nano-devices for the better and sustainable society" at 8th International Conference of
Young Scientists & Annual General Meeting 2018 of the Global Young Academy, in Pattaya, Thailand,
during 7-11 May 2018.
15. "Self-aligned ZnO nanorods for energy efficient hydrogen sensor" at 1st TYAN International Thematic
Workshop on "Fundamentals of Photoelectrochemistry: From Materials Chemistry to Energy
Conversion" in Chascomus, Argentina during 23-27 April 2018.
16. Rajlaxmi Chouhan delivered invited lectures on Basic Electronics (August 2018) and Signals & Systems
(April 2019) for B.Tech. students at JIET College of Engineering, Jodhpur.
1. Ankita Sharma delivered an Invited talk and served as a panelist in Pan-Asian Symposium on Morality,
Character and Wisdom, 2019 at the Hilton Colombo in Colombo, Sri Lanka.
2. Ankita Sharma delivered an Invited talk on “Wisdom and decision making: Role of life experiences and
leadership position” at the 1st Indian Congress of Industrial and Organizational Psychology, University
of Rajasthan, Jaipur.
The following is the department-wise list of Invited Talks.

1. Ajay Kumar Mahato, Vivek Raghuwanshi, Deepak Bharti, Ishan Varun, Narottam Prasad, Mahesh Saran
Roy, and Shree Prakash Tiwari, “Gate Dielectric Dependence of Electrical and Photo-Response
Behaviour in Copper (II) Phthalocyanine Based Organic Field-Effect Transistors,” 4th IEEE International
Conference on Emerging Electronics (ICEE 2018), December 16-19, 2018, Bangalore, India
2. I. S. Krishna, S. Mukherjee, "Design of Dual-Mode Substrate Integrated Coaxial Line (SICL) Cavity Filter
for Millimeter-wave Applications", Presented in 2018 International Microwave & RF conference, Kolkata,
2018.
3. Ishan Varun, Deepak Bharti, Ajay Kumar Mahato, Vivek Raghuwanshi, and Shree Prakash Tiwari,
“Effect Effect of Annealing on Resistive Switching Behavior of PMMA Based RRAM,” 4th IEEE
International Conference on Emerging Electronics (ICEE 2018), December 16-19, 2018, Bangalore, India.
4. S. Mukherjee and A. Biswas, Design of Eliptical SIW Cavity Backed High Gain Slot Antenna, Presented
in 2018 IEEE-INAE Workshop on Electromagnetics, Trivandrum, 2018.
5. Vivek Raghuwanshi, Deepak Bharti, Ajay Kumar Mahato, Ishan Varun, and Shree Prakash Tiwari,
“Effect of TIPS-Pentacene:Polystyrene Blend Ratio on Electrical Performance and Stability of Solution
Processed Organic Field-Effect Transistors,” 4th IEEE International Conference on Emerging Electronics
(ICEE 2018), December 16-19, 2018, Bangalore, India.
1. Mayurakshi Chaudhuri presented a research paper titled "Digitised Swasthya: Technology and
Healthcare As Sociotechnical Ensembles in Rajasthan, India," at the XIX ISA World Congress of
Sociology organized by the International Sociological Association, in Toronto, Canada, 15-21 July 2018.
1. S. P. Singh and G. Bhatnagar “A Reference Based Secure and Robust Zerowatermarking Scheme” Proc.
Int. Conf. Computer Vision & Image Processing, IIITDM Jabalpur, India, September 29-October 01, 2018.
2. S. P. Singh and G. Bhatnagar, “A Robust Watermarking Scheme for Copyright Protection” Proc. Int.
Conf. Computer Vision & Image Processing, IIITDM Jabalpur, India, September 29-October 01, 2018.
The following is the department-wise list of Conference Presentations.

1. Amit Mishra, Assistant Professor, Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering, awarded eminent Shri
Om Prakash Sharma Award, India by Indian Academy of Biomedical Sciences (IABS) India for
outstanding contributions in Biomedical Research.
2. Amit Mishra, Assistant Professor, Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering, selected for Shankunta
3. Amit Mishra, Assistant Professor, Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering, selected for the
Distinguished Life Time Membership of National Academy of Medical Sciences (NAMS), India for his
excellent research contribution in Biomedical Science.
4. Sushmita Jha, Assistant Professor, Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering, selected for
1. Rakesh Kumar Sharma, Assistant Professor, Department of Chemistry, honoured with
the Outstanding Research Award 2018 during 1st Annual Transformational Leadership Summit &
Awards 2018 at Bangalore. The Outstanding Research Award exemplifies excellence in research, and
fosters and felicitates individuals with inclination towards creating positive impact on research and
academic community with notable contribution to their field.
1. Deepak Fulwani, Associate Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, inducted in Editorial
Board of IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications as an Associate Editor.
2. Mahesh Kumar, Assistant Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, selected as Emerging
3. Mahesh Kumar, Assistant Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, admitted as Member of The
Royal Society of Chemistry, UK.
4. Mahesh Kumar, Assistant Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, awarded Bhaskara
5. Mahesh Kumar, Assistant Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, selected as Member of
National Academy of Sciences India (NASI)
6. Mahesh Kumar, Assistant Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, elected as Chairman of
7. Rajlaxmi Chouhan, Assistant Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, was presented with Late
Shri Pralhad P Chhabria Award 2019 for Best Woman Professional (Early Career) instituted by Hope
Foundation and Research Center (HFRC) in association with IEEE India Council and Women in
Engineering Affinity Group, IEEE Pune Section. The award includes a Medal, a Citation, and a Prize of
Rs. 1.25 Lakhs.
8. Soumava Mukherjee, Assistant Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, received URSI Young
9. Transaction paper titled "SIW Based Quad-beam Leaky-wave Antenna With Polarization Diversity for
Four Quadrant Scanning Applications," by A. Sarkar, Soumava Mukherjee, A. Sharma, A. Biswas and
M. J. Akhtar selected for top cover page of the journal issue (IEEE Transactions on Antennas and
Propagation, vol. 66, no. 8, Aug. 2018) in IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation.
Awards & Recognitions

Outreach
The following Outreach activities have been undertaken by the Faculty Members at IIT
Jodhpur during the FY 2018-19.
The orientation program on UBA 2.0 was attended by Nirmal K. Rana at IIT Delhi on 25
April 2018 and regional workshop on UBA 2.0 was attended by the Nodal Officer Ananya Debnath 
at MPUAT, Udaipur on 10 August 2018. UBA team of IIT Jodhpur along with Ananya Debnath 
attended Gramsabha meeting in Rudiya village on 15 August 2018. Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay, 
Ganpat Choudhary, Amitap Khandelwal spoke about the action plans for the three major problems 
in the village identified based on the survey performed under the guidance of Anand Plappally.
Unnat Bharat Abhiyan team organized an open discussion on “Use of emerging technology
for social good” at IIT Jodhpur on 25 February, 2019. Two distinguished speakers, Mr Anurag Goyal 
and Dr Anurag Agrawal delivered lectures on emerging technology relevant for health care and role 
of administration in this aspect. This brainstorming session was attended by Faculty members and 
Students. In continuation, another discussion was held with Mr Anurag Goyal, Faculty members 
and the Director on 26 February 2019. Different aspects and practical challenges on working on such 
areas were critically explored during the discussion.
Unnat Bharat Abhiyan team of IIT Jodhpur at Gramsabha meeting in Rudiya village
Vigyan Jyoti Program was organized by IIT Jodhpur during 14 May – 02 June 2018. The
program is a new initiative of the Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India, 
to bring gender parity in the different fields of Science & Technology (S&T), where women are 
under-represented. This program was spearheaded by Priyanka Singh, Assistant Professor, 
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering, IIT Jodhpur. Under this program, 30 female students of 
Classes XI & XII attended this comprehensive three week residential program at IIT Jodhpur 
campus and participated in various activities specifically designed for them on a spectrum of issues 
like Role Models, Society & Life, Health, Competence, and Profession & Life.

Participants of Vigyan Jyoti Program

A one-day “Science Exhibition and Lecture Series on Nanotechnology” was organized by
Ritu Gupta, Assistant Professor, Department of Chemistry, IIT Jodhpur in collaboration with Centre 
for Nano and Soft Matter, Bangalore and support from Karnataka Science and Technology 
Promotion Society (Govt. of Karnataka). The event was scheduled at IIT Jodhpur on 15 October 2018 
and at Rajasthan University, Jaipur on 29 October 2018 for science students belonging to different 
streams from various schools, colleges and institutes of Jodhpur and Jaipur. There were around 300 
participants at the event organized at IIT Jodhpur and 250 participants at Rajasthan University, 
Jaipur. The event consisted of introductory and advanced lectures, an exhibition, open discussion 
session, a quiz and a video show. The main objective of the event was to introduce the importance of 
nanoscience for mankind and linking the activities of Tenth Bengaluru India Nano Promotional 
Programme organized every year by Department of Information Technology, Biotechnology, and 
Science & Technology and Vision Group on Nanotechnology (VGNT) under the guidance and 
support of Prof. C. N. R. Rao, FRS.
Group Photo of Participants, Faculty Members, Staff Members with Invited Guests

Group Photo of Participants of GIAN Program, Faculty Members, Staff Members and Students with Invited Guests
A National Workshop on “Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos (NDCSE2018)” was organized
during 13-15 December 2018 at Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur. The workshop 
had 6 Keynote Talks, 20 invited Lectures and poster presentation in the area of nonlinear dynamics 
and Chaos by postgraduate students/research scholars from various IITs/NITs/Central 
universities. The workshop received a very encouraging response and it was attended by more than 
eighty-five participants. The aim of this workshop was to bring together leading specialists from 
engineering, applied mathematics, physics, and biophysics to promote interdisciplinary discussion 
in areas related to dynamics, chaos and their applications. This workshop was primarily designed to 
present the fundamentals and the recent developments in the fast developing, interdisciplinary field 
of Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos. This workshop provided a platform to exchange experiences in 
the field of Nonlinear Dynamics. The outcome presented recent breakthroughs in the state-of-art 
applied research being carried out in the field of Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos. Further, the 
workshop encouraged Students and Scholars pursuing M.Sc. (Physics/Applied Mathematics/Bio-
physics), M.E/M.Tech. and PhD and provided an opportunity to present their current research 
interest in this scientific field with their poster presentations.
Prof. Santanu Chaudhary, Director of IIT Jodhpur welcomed the participants and invited
speakers and provided the opening note for the conference while Prof. Barun Pratiher, Convener of 
NDCSE 2018 addressed briefly about the workshop. The workshop started with keynote lectures by 
Prof. P. Parmananda (IIT Bombay) and Prof. S. Prof. Keshavamurthy (IIT Madras). Prof. S. K. 
Dwivedy (IIT Guwahati), Prof. Kannan Iyer (IIT Bombay), Prof. Nandan K. Sinha (IIT Madras), and 
Prof. S. Sinha (IISER Mohali) delivered keynote talks while Prof. S. P. Harsha (IIT Roorkee), Prof. B. 
K. Goswami (BARC, Mumbai), Prof. S. Chakraborty (IIT Kanpur), Prof. A. Prasad (Delhi 
University), Prof. L. Chandra (IIT BHU), Prof. N. Bairagi (Javadpur University), Prof. A. Garg 
(JNVU, Jodhpur), Prof. J. Vajpai (JNVU, Jodhpur), Prof. M. Shrimali (CU, Rajasthan), Prof. D. 
Fulwani (IIT Jodhpur), Prof. A. Mishra (IIT Jodhpur), and Prof. Rakesh Choubisa (BITS, Pilani) 
delivered the invited talks in this workshop.

Group Photo on the closing day
Participants of the Meeting with Organisers

A National Workshop on Intelligent Multimodal Interfaces was organised by the Department of 
Mathematics at IIT Jodhpur during 09-10 March 2019. The workshop had two Keynote talk, four 
Expert Lectures, two interactive sessions and a Panel Discussion in the area of Intelligent 
Multimodal Interfaces by eminent Professors, Scientists, and Researchers from Academia, R&D 
Organizations and Industry. The workshop received a very encouraging response, and was 
attended by more than 100 participants. The workshop emphasized bringing forward various 
problems and research opportunities in the area of Intelligent Multimodal Interfaces. More 
specifically, it focused on artificial intelligence, computational linguistics, computer graphics, 
cognitive sciences, software design, and information retrieval.
Gaurav Bhatnagar, General Chair and Head, Department of Mathematics, welcomed the
participants and experts to the workshop. The workshop was inaugurated by S. Chaudhury, 
Director, IIT Jodhpur who then delivered the inaugural talk. This was followed by the invited talks 
by S. Das, IIT Madras; A. Sankaran, IBM Research, India; S.R. Nair, NVIDIA, India; A. Malik, Vizara 
Technologies, Delhi; P.K. Biswas, IIT Kharagpur; B. Chanda, ISI Kolkata; M. Manivanan, IIT Madras; 
C. Arora, IIT Delhi. The workshop concluded with a panel discussion on challenges, opportunity, 
and road ahead in the area. The panel discussion was steered by S. Chaudhury, Director, IIT 
Jodhpur with panel members as P.K. Biswas, Professor, IIT Kharagpur, B. Chanda, Professor, ISI 
Kolkata, C. Arora, Associate Professor, IIT Delhi, and A. Sankaran, Research Scientist, IBM Research 
Lab.
The workshop provided an opportunity to the participants to showcase their research in the
form of posters and demonstrations and to experts to get their valuable inputs. A total of 9 posters 
were selected after peer review to demonstrate their research work during the poster session.
Group Photo of the Participants of NWIMI’19

Panel Discussion during NWIMI’19
National Conference on AI innovations and IP Trends was jointly organised by DST
Government of Rajasthan, and IIT Jodhpur during 11 – 12 March 2019. It was the first conference in 
the country to deal with the subject of AI Innovations and Intellectual property rights-related issues. 
This conference brought together accomplished and experienced AI and IP professionals from 
academia, industry, and R&D organization to understand both – AI innovations and their protection 
methodologies. Eminent speakers were invited from various organizations such as Tata 
Consultancy Services, Office of Scientific Advisor to Honourable PM, CIPAM, Vibrant Health 
Limited, Mehta & Mehta Associates, XLPAT Labs, Ex Lege Chambers, FormulateIP, etc.

S.No. Speaker & Topic
(1) (1) Tapan Misra
(2) Dr. Anurag Agrawal
Director
CSIR - Institute of Genomics & Integrative Biology (IGIB), New Delhi
2nd Decennial Lecture - “Multi, Inter and Trans: Brothers from different Mothers”
25 February 2019
(3) (3) G.N. Sastry
(4) Ramakrishna Ramaswamy, Professor
Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi
“Fireflies and Chimeras: Symmetry and symmetry-breaking in dynamical systems”
19 April 2018
(5) Rama S. Verma
(6) Bhabatosh Banik
Nanotherapeutics Research Laboratory, University of Miami, USA
"Cancer, Atherosclerosis, Mitochondria Isolation, BBB penetration and their 'Nanoparticle Connection’”
17 April 2018
(7) Soumik Siddhanta,
(8) Srinu Tothadi
NCL, Pune
“Crystal Engineering: Design and Synthesis of Multicomponent Crystals and their Applications”
24 October 2018

(9) Shreyam Chatterjee
(10) Banani Chakraborty, Professor
Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore
“DNA-aptamer coupled DNA origami as bio-sensors and delivery vehicles”
18 January 2019
(11) (11) Vishal Dhupar
(12) Avinash Sharma, Assistant Professor
IIIT Hyderabad
(13) Philippe Dugerdil, Professor
(14) S.C. Sahasrabudhe, Professor
Former Director, DA-IICT, Gandhinagar
“Electronics, as it evolved over the years”
23 October 2018
(15) Saif Khan Mohammed , Professor
(16) H.M. Gupta, Formerly, Professor
“Ten Points Academics & Not So Random Thoughts”
11 July 2019
(17) M.L. Kothari, Professor
(18) Inder K. Rana
Emeritus Fellow, Department of Mathematics, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay
“Why Linear Algebra!” and “Beyond Infinity”
12,14 November 2018
(19) (19) Ashok Joshi, Professor
(20) S. Bhattacharya
Chief Designer at Rotary Wing Research & Design Centre (RWRDC)
Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, Bangalore
“Development Challenges of Modern Helicopter Transmission Systems”
28 September 2018
(21) (21) Maya Sharma

EVENTS
World Immunology Day was organized at IIT Jodhpur on 1st May 2018, by Dr Sushmita Jha, 
with support from Indian Immunology Society. This program was organized with the aim of 
encouraging students to choose a career in Science. M.Tech and PhD students from the Department 
of Bioscience and Bioengineering, conducted quiz, skit, videos and laboratory visit for Students of 
Kendriya Vidyalaya, IIT Jodhpur.
Students of Kendriya Vidyalaya, IIT Jodhpur, watching videos on
Immune System
Students of Kendriya Vidyalaya, IIT Jodhpur, viewing samples under
microscope
Ph.D. and M.Tech. Students of Department of Biocience &
Bioengineering enacting a skit on Immune System
Prize Distribution
The 4th International Day of Yoga was observed on 21 June 2018 at IIT Jodhpur. Members of
the IIT Jodhpur fraternity including Students, Faculty and Staff Members, and their family members 
enthusiastically participated in the event. Professor B. P. Kashyap, Professor In-charge, Department 
of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering, IIT Jodhpur, in his opening remarks, welcomed the 
participants and explained the benefits of Yoga for physical and mental health. The participants 
were taught various Aasanaas and Pranayam. A vote of thanks was proposed by Shri Subhash 
Pandey, Advisor (Administration), IIT Jodhpur.
The day was observed in the GPRA Residential Campus as well, by the Staff Members and
Students staying there.

The 72nd Independence Day of the Nation
was celebrated by Members of IIT Jodhpur, on 15 
August 2018. The Director hoisted the National 
Flag, and the National Anthem was sung with 
affection and devotion to the motherland, by all 
present. Competitions were organized for the 
children of IIT Jodhpur employees. Students 
presented music and street play.
A Children’s Library was inaugurated on
this occasion, for the children of employees, 
which is an initiative of the IIT Jodhpur Library.
Musical performance by Students of IIT Jodhpur

Street Play on Depression in Youth by Nukkad Natak Mandali, Students Gymkhana, IIT Jodhpur
Swachhta Pakhwada was observed at Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur during 1-15
September 2018. On this occasion, activities such as Institute Lecture on Swachhta and Hygiene in 
Children, poster making and slogan writing, were organized. The Institute Swachhta Committee 
assessed the level of cleanliness in buildings on campus and a cleanliness drive was undertaken in 
the Institute.
Members of the Institute Swachhta Committee assessing level of
cleanliness in buildings on Campus
Dr. Saroj Dabas, Principal, KV IITJ, delivering a talk on How to inculcate
Swachhta and Hygiene in Children
The International Day of Girl Child was observed at IIT Jodhpur on 11 October 2018 during
which the Women Cell of the Institute organized its Autumn Activities. Chief Guest Professor. 
Poonam Saxena, Vice Chancellor, National Law University, Jodhpur addressed on “Towards 
making gender parity a reality” and a competition was organized on Legal Awareness.
Prize Distribution 
Professor Poonam Saxena addressing the audience

Bihu Dance performance by Students Sattriya Dance by Shrimati Anwesha Mahanta
Vigilance Awareness Week was observed at IIT Jodhpur as per Central Vigilance
Commission’s (CVC) guidlelines from 29 October 2018 to 3 November 2018, with the theme 
Eradicate Corruption - Build a New India. The pledge of integrity was administered by Professor S. 
R. Vadera, Head and Professor, Department of Physics, which was attended by the Faculty 
Members and Staff Members.
Banners and display boards propagating the message on Vigilance Awareness, Anti-
corruption etc. were displayed at all prime locations of the Institute. Also, essay writing and 
presentation competitions on the said theme were organized by Dr. Gaurav Harit, Chief Vigilance 
Officer, during 1-2 November 2018 for all members of the Institute.
Pledge of Integrity administered by Professor S.R. Vadera and prize distribution for participants of the competitions

Rashtriya Ekta Diwas was celebrated at IIT Jodhpur under the guidance of Ministry of
Human Resource development (MHRD), Government of India on 31 October 2018 to commemorate 
the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, one of the founding fathers of the Republic of 
India. Professor S. R. Vadera, Professor, IIT Jodhpur, led the Institute’s Community i.e., the Faculty 
Members, Staff Members and Students, in taking a pledge for National Unity, which was taken at 
Institute’s Lecture Hall Complex. Also, on this occasion, a 5 kilometer Run for Unity event was 
flagged off by Vadera along with Sh. Subhash Pandey, Advisor (Administration), IIT Jodhpur. 
Many Students, Faculty and Staff Members participated in the event. Professor Vadera encouraged 
the participants and distributed prizes amongst the winners of Run for Unity.
Prof S. R. Vadera, Head and Professor, Department of Physics, and Sh. Subhash Pandey, Advisor (Administration) flagging off of the Run for Unity
National Education Day, which is the birthday of Maulana Abul Kalam Azad was celebrated by
the Children’s Library of the Institute on 17 November 2018. Elocution and drawing competitions were 
organised for children of the employees of IIT Jodhpur. Children participated in these competitions with 
great enthusiasm. Prizes were given away to the winners and runners up by Professor S. R. Vadera, 
Head, Department of Physics.
Children participating in competitions with great enthusiasm

Institute Events
2018 Institute Day Celebration
2018 Institute day was celebrated at IIT Jodhpur on 20 April, 2018 marking the culmination
of the year’s academic and non-academic activities. Sri Subhash Pandey, Advisor (Administration) 
welcomed the gathering. Reports of the Institute’s activities during 2017-18 were presented by 
Rakesh K. Sharma (Associate Dean (R&D)), Suril V. Shah, (Associate Dean (Academics)), 
Samanwita Pal (Associate Dean (Students)), and C. V. R. Murty (Director). Certificates of 
appreciation were distributed to students for their achievements in academic and non-academic 
activities during 2017-2018. Thereafter, Madhu Dikshit (Professor-in-Charge, Department of 
Bioscience & Bioengineering), B. P. Kashyap (Professor-in-Charge, Department of Metallurgical & 
Materials Engineering), and Shri M. L. Bapna (Advisor (Industry – Academia Interface)) addressed 
the gathering on growth of the Institute. The Director delivered the closing remarks.
Dr. Rakesh K. Sharma, Associate Dean (R&D) presenting Report of R&D
Activities during 2017-18
Dr. Suril V. Shah, Associate Dean (Academics) presenting Certificates to
Students for Academic Achievements
Outgoing Students attending the function 
Dr. Samanwita Pal, Associate Dean (Students) presenting Certificates
to Students for Non-Academic Achievements
4th Convocation Ceremony
The 4th Convocation of IIT Jodhpur was organized on 25 August 2018 in its Permanent
Campus. The Chief Guest for this momentous occasion was Dr. Srikumar Banerjee, Chancellor, Homi 
Bhabha National Institute, Mumbai. Dr. R. Chidambaram, Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur 
(and former Principal Scientific Advisor to Government of India), presided over the ceremony. In 
this 4th Convocation, the Institute awarded 388 degrees – 289 B.Tech., 37 M.Sc., 43 M.Tech. and 19 
Ph.D. degrees, consisting of students who graduated in 2017 and 2018 together. With this the total

S.No. Prize Awarded to
2. 2018 Chairman, Board of Governors, Prize for the graduating student Vijay Kumar Paliwal
B.Tech. (CSE) Student Vijay Kumar Paliwal
with Best Academic Performance amongst all students of 2018 B.Tech. B.Tech. (CSE) Student
4. 2018 Director’s Prize
for the Group of Students with Best Academic Innovation work
amongst all Students of B.Tech. Programs of 2018 Abhishek Sharma
6. 2017 Chairman, Board of Governors, Prize for the graduating student Nithin, V.
B.Tech. (CSE) Student Nithin, V.
with Best Academic Performance among all students of B.Tech. (CSE) Student
8. 2018 Chairman, Board of Governors, Prize for the graduating student Atal Tewari
with Best Academic Performance among all students of 2018 M.Tech. M.Tech. (EE) Student
number of students who graduated from this Institute has reached 1,108. 267 of these 388 students 
received their degrees in person in the presence of their parents and family members. Also, the 
academically outstanding students received medals and certificates. The following are the Medal 
winners in the Convocation.
1. 
2018 President’s Gold Medal 
for the graduating student with Best Academic Performance among all 
students of ALL 2018 B.Tech. Programs
Vijay Kumar Paliwal 
B.Tech. (CSE) Student
3. 
2018 Chairman, Board of Governors, Prize for the graduating student 
with Best Academic Performance amongst all students of 2018 B.Tech. 
(Mechanical Engineering) Program
Kartik Venkata 
Ramachandruni 
B.Tech. (ME) Student
5. 
2017 President’s Gold Medal 
for the graduating student with Best Academic Performance among all 
students of ALL 2017 B.Tech. Programs
Nithin, V. 
B.Tech. (CSE) Student
7. 
2017 Chairman, Board of Governors, Prize for the graduating student 
with Best Academic Performance among all students of 2017 B.Tech. 
(Mechanical Engineering) Program
Hardik Jain 
B.Tech. (ME) Student
The Learning Hub, IIT Jodhpur, has started a Children’s Library under its umbrella for
children of IIT Jodhpur fraternity. The Opening Ceremony was witnessed by guests and children 
of IIT Jodhpur employees along with their parents.

Dr. (Mrs.) Bharti Swamy, opening the Children’s Library 
Today’s enthused readers, tomorrow’s informed citizens…!!
Curious children and parents during the Opening Ceremony of Children’s Library

FACILITIES
Our Campus
IIT Jodhpur moved into its sprawling Permanent Campus located on NH 65, Nagaur Road,
Karwar (Village), Jodhpur (City) during May – June 2017. By shifting its entire academic activities 
to its Permanent Campus, the Institute crossed a major milestone. This new campus has been 
planned meticulously and envisioned to stand as a symbol of academics – simple, but deep. More 
importantly, it will be an international exemplar of sustainability with strategies for ensuring NET 
ZERO ENERGY, WATER and WASTE. The other salient features of the Permanent Campus are:
(1) Walking campus, which is pedestrian oriented and bicycle dominant; 
(2) Learning facilitated anywhere, anytime with wireless ICT backbone (including Multi-media
enabled learning spaces with flexible, shared public spaces);
(3) Thermally comfortable smart buildings with GRIHA 4/5 star compliant buildings and GRIHA
LD benchmark campus (including dense desert settlement morphology, low height buildings 
(up to a maximum of 3 storeys) built with low embodied energy materials, and improved local 
and traditional methods);
(4) Plantation with native species, soil stabilization, protection from dusty wind to arrest erosion,
desertification, and building-up soil moisture over time;
(5) Rain water harvesting, and water reduction and sewage recycling, together greening the site
over time; and
(6) Segregated wastes and customized recycling.
Many of the Faculty Members are residing on campus. Initially, there were 60 flats in the
Park Avenue residential colony; in the Second Phase of Campus Development, 72 more flats have 
been constructed. Also, 3 new hostel buildings have been constructed. The salient feature of these 
hostels is Single AC Room accommodation in all buildings. A dedicated dining hall building caters 
to the needs of students and other residents. It has a mess and a canteen that serve hygienic and 
nutritious food. Essential services and amenities have been established to facilitate residents in their 
day-to-day needs. A Primary Health Center runs in the residential area, in collaboration with M/s. 
Goyal Hospital & Research Center, Jodhpur, and is ISO:9001 certified. Basic services (like the 
groceries, dining and food court, bank, stationery, laundry, beauty parlour and salon services) are 
operational in the Community Center towards southern side of the Campus. A Kendriya Vidyalaya is 
functional in the campus, running Classes 1 to 8. It is housed in the First Building of IIT Jodhpur. 
There is a dedicated bus service for commuting from the Campus to and from the city of Jodhpur. 
The Staff Members have relocated to the Staff Quarters on campus during February 2019.
The photographs in the pages to follow give a glimpse of the Permanent Campus of IIT

A view of the Main Building of IIT Jodhpur
Blue 1: Boys Hostel, IIT Jodhpur 
Dining Hall
Library Building: The Learning Hub 
A view of Park Avenue: Faculty & Officers Housing
ISO Certified Primary Health Center 
Shopping Center in the Community Center, Jaisalmer Club

Facilities on Campus
Following are some facilities that are available in Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur:
(a) ATM & Bank: The IIT Jodhpur Branch of SBI (State Bank of India) and its ATM are housed in
the Community Center Building, enabling students and residents to make transactions with 
ease.
(b) Dining Hall: The Dining Hall Building has a Mess and a Restaurant that cater to the needs of
students and employees. They provide hygienic food, fresh juices and various other snacks. The 
mess offers good quality food, regularly monitored by the Wardens for hygiene and nutritional 
values, and provided at affordable cost.
(c) Gymnasium: All students hostels have well-equipped gymnasium for students. 
(d) Entertainment Room: Every hostel consists of recreation facilities (like TV Rooms, where
students can enjoy matches and watch movies) along with indoor games (like table tennis and 
carroms).
(e) Laundry Service: Students and residents are facilitated with a dedicated laundry service on
(f) Shopping Center: Shops catering to the various primary needs of students and residents, like,
grocery, stationery, grooming parlour, milk parlour, are housed in the Community Center 
Building.
(g) Transport Services: The Institute has a bus service running between the Permanent Campus and
Jodhpur City at regular intervals, exclusively for the Students of the Institute.
(h) Medical Services: The Primary Health Center operated by M/s. Goyal Hospital & Research
Center Pvt. Ltd., Jodhpur, in the residential area of the Institute, provides routine health 
services to students and residents of the Campus. Besides this fully functional, round-the-clock, 
ISO Certified, Primary Health Center in the campus, IIT Jodhpur is fortunate to have in the city 
an all new state-of-the-art All India Institute of Medical Sciences, the associated Hospitals of the 
S. N. Medical College and some specialized hospitals. The Institute has agreements with a few 
prominent hospitals for priority treatment to its employees and students. These include: Goyal 
Hospital and Research Center, Medi Pulse Hospital, and Vasan Eye Care Hospital. Also, the 
Institute has constituted a Medical Board consisting of Senior Doctors from the Medical College 
and the AIIMS; advice is taken for enhancement of medical services of the Health Centers and 
in critical medical cases. IIT Jodhpur has empanelled two hospitals in Jaipur. These two 
hospitals are accredited by National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare, and 
patients can be referred to these hospitals as per the need of the treatment.
For its copybook-style Master Plan, the Master Plan of IIT Jodhpur’s Permanent Campus has
been awarded 5 Star Rating by the Green Rating for Integrated Habitat Assessment (GRIHA) 
Council under GRIHA LD V1 category on 11 December 2018. The campus design of IIT Jodhpur 
visualizes all parts of all zones as interdependent, integral network, like the metabolism of a living 
organism, integrating social, economic and environmental sustainability to become a near-zero 
emission campus. Unlike a campus where buildings are spread out, increasing infrastructure and 
water consumption and creating heat islands, this campus uses a series of compact urban clusters 
typical of desert settlements. The campus is designed to be a flexible plug and play system by using 
a series of service tunnels, trenches and serviceable shafts that allow easy maintenance and 
upgrading of all wired and piped services without breaking open a wall, slab or road.

ACADEMIC & RESEARCH FACILITIES
The Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur spreads across 852 acres of land located ~24 km
away from the center of the city of Jodhpur on National Highway 65 towards Nagaur, N-NE from 
the center of Jodhpur. It has 3 parcels of land. Presently constructions exist in Pockets A and B. The 
First Phase of Construction is complete with the buildings following buildings that are being used 
for its academic, research and administrative activities are: 
1. Main Building, housing all the administrative offices of the Institute; 
2. The Learning Hub, housing the Library of the Institute, and accommodating the Computer
3. Lecture Hall Building with 9 classrooms of 60 seating capacity and a 325 and 650 seater
classrooms each. All the classrooms are air conditioned, equipped with modern learning 
facilities like the Internet and audio visual facilities;
4. The Basic Laboratories are established in one building; 
5. Department of Computer Science & Engineering (CSE) Building houses the Departments of
CSE, Mathematics, and Humanities & Social Sciences. Also, the laboratories of Computer 
Science & Engineering are established in this building;
6. Departments of Chemistry and Bioscience & Bioengineering are housed in the building of
Department of Chemistry;
7. Departments of Electrical Engineering and Physics share the space in the building of
Department of Electrical Engineering;
8. Department of Mechanical Engineering also houses the newly established Department of
Metallurgical & Materials Engineering;
Besides these buildings, the First Building of IIT Jodhpur in Pocket B houses the Office of 
Infrastructure.
The following pages give a description of the laboratories and research facilities, library and
computing facilities of the Institute.

S.No. Name of the Laboratory
Laboratories
IIT Jodhpur has established good number of teaching and research laboratories and
facilities, which aid in elevating the students from minimalist academic concerns to inquisitive 
world of scientific arena. These teaching and research laboratories help Faculty Members and 
Students work for better future by supplementing and improving existing technologies and bodies 
of knowledge, using competence, creativity and imagination. Also, the Institute has a centralized 
management of its sophisticated instruments under one umbrella known as the Center for Advanced 
Scientific Instruments (CASE); for use by both internal and external users.
Appearing below is a list of laboratories established in IIT Jodhpur whose details are given
in the following pages.
1. 
Advanced Biosciences and Neuroscience laboratory
2. 
Chemical Biology laboratory
3. 
Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory
4. 
Protein Engineering Laboratory
5. 
Chemistry Laboratory
6. 
Multimedia Laboratory
7. 
Networking Technologies Laboratory
8. 
Control / DSP / Microprocessor Laboratory
9. 
Electronic Circuit Laboratory
10. 
Instrumentation & Communication Laboratory
11. 
Power Electronics Laboratory
12. 
Robotics Laboratory
13. 
Advance Manufacturing Laboratory
14. 
Central Workshop
15. 
Dynamics & Vibration Laboratory
16. 
Electro Mechanical Energy Conversion Laboratory
17. 
Fluid Mechanics & Heat Transfer Laboratory
18. 
High Temperature Solar Thermal Laboratory
19. 
Materials Testing & Solid Mechanics Laboratory
20. 
Renewable Energy Laboratory
21. 
Solar Radiation Laboratory
22. 
Biomolecular Information Processing Laboratory
23. 
Magnetic Property Measurement System (MPMS / SQUID) Laboratory
24. 
Materials Analysis Laboratory
25. 
Physics Laboratory

The Advanced Biosciences and Neuroscience laboratory provides cellular and molecular
investigative tools for UG and PG teaching and research in neuroscience. Cell culture studies are 
utilised along with molecular biology, biochemistry and microscopy approaches to elucidate the 
molecular mechanisms underlying molecular and cellular interactions underlying inflammation 
and repair. Inflammation is a key component of many diseases including traumatic brain injury, 
cancer, multiple sclerosis, stroke, asthma, Parkinson’s disease and Alzheimer’s disease. 
Inflammation is characterized by accumulation and proliferation of innate immune cells. This is 
followed by clearance of dead cells and cellular debris along with enhanced expression of 
molecular mediators called cytokines and chemokines, which cause migration and proliferation of 
immune cells and may even lead to cell death. Understanding the mechanisms by which 
inflammation occurs, and the molecular mediators involved in this process, is necessary for 
identification of potential therapeutic targets.
Organisms at the cellular level possess a well-established protein quality control mechanism
which the lab team is trying to understand at present. The role of E3 ubiquitin ligases was reported 
in such mechanisms so far. Our laboratory is dedicated to a qualitative research in the field of 
protein quality control mechanisms. We have recently found that a HECT domain containing E3 
ubiquitin ligase E6-AP helps in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis diseases suppression through its

association with the misfolded protein aggregates formed by SOD1 mutants. Such findings support 
that an E3 ligase can have a capability to clear the misfolded protein aggregation. However, while 
appreciating the incredible efficiency of cellular systems, we must recognize the crucial role of 
chaperones which are supposed to work preferentially compared to E3 ubiquitin ligases in order to 
refold the misfolded proteins, and hence conserving the energy utilized during the translation of 
those proteins. Various examples made us think that we could explore the role of both the 
chaperones and E3 ubiquitin ligases in the clearance of misfolded proteins. Therefore, now we are 
working not only with E3 ubiquitin ligases but also with the chaperones and even in their 
functional association to confer an efficient quality control mechanism to the cell.
The Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory at IIT Jodhpur, in addition to serving various
undergraduate and post-graduate courses, undertakes research in the areas of bioenergy and 
bioremediation. Researchers in the lab investigate on waste to energy conversion processes with an 
aim to develop sustainable biotechnological solutions to water pollution and energy. At present, 
successful bioremediation processes for nitrate and chromium (VI) contaminated wastes have been 
developed. Also, research is underway for the development of low cost Microbial Carbon Capture 
cells for power generation and algae cultivation. In addition to this, researchers in the lab have been 
successful in isolating novel yeasts, the potential biodiesel producing candidates.
The Protein Engineering Laboratory at IIT Jodhpur is undertaking cutting-edge research in
developing biomaterials based on the understanding of structural and functional properties of 
useful proteins such as collagen. The implications of the research could also extend towards 
development of effective biomedical devices and implants.
The core objective of the chemistry laboratory of IIT Jodhpur is to train students in scientific
methods that would solve real problems at the frontier of our understanding of the matter. This is a 
multi-use laboratory and provides a number of resources to assist undergraduate, graduate and 
Ph.D. students in planning their professional careers after completing their academic program at 
IIT Jodhpur.
This laboratory maintains a broad spectrum of state-of-the-art instrumentation including
basic laboratory set up (for organic, inorganic, organometallic and material synthesis), Nitrogen, 
Oxygen and LPG gas line, Inert atmosphere boxes, vacuum line work, fume hood pH, conductivity, 
BOD, COD, meters, Rotary evaporator, Vacuum pumps, centrifuges, High pressure reactor system, 
Chiller, microbalances, Orbital Shaker, GC, HPLC and Radleys ready reactor. In the academic year 
2012-2013, the lab procured equipment such as Polarimeter, Melting point Instrument, Solar 
Simulator, Digital Titrator, Kugalrohr, Electrochemical work stations, and Battery analysers.
A 500 MHz NMR spectrometer with solid state probe is an essential resource, whose
mission is to make a state-of-the-art high field NMR and methods available to researchers, 
providing a place for them to pursue their projects and develop new methodologies in NMR 
methods.

Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectrometer (500 MHz) 
Chemistry Laboratory
Solar Simulator 
Surface Area Analyzer
Gas Chromatograph 
Reactor Ready

The Media Laboratory provides facilities to carry out work related to E-learning, image
processing, and computer vision. The thrust areas of research in this lab are: Semantic analysis of 
video/image content, video surveillance, human motion analysis, document image analysis, 
content based image retrieval etc. E-learning related activities include video recording, audio-video 
digitization, video editing, etc. In the academic year 2011-2012, a research on Indian sign language 
recognition using Kinect has been initiated. The following equipment are available in this 
laboratory.
1. Scanners: Book Drive Mini, UMAX Powerlook. 
2. Cameras: Sony 177PD, Sony Camcorder, Cannon 500D VCR: Sony DSR 45AP 
3. Tripods: Manfrotto, iMac.
Networking Technologies Laboratory has been started functioning in the Academic Year
2011-2012. It aims at enabling undergraduate and graduate students, who pursue their interest in 
the area of computer networks, to understand the concepts of computer networks and work with 
contemporary networking equipment in a realistic setting. In addition, the lab aims at providing 
necessary infrastructure to carry out research activities on advanced topics, such as wireless mesh 
networks, sensor networks, communication on power lines, from computer networks. The activities 
that take place in this laboratory are:

1. Prototyping of networking hardware (Example, Ethernet switch, IPV4 router etc.) using
2. Developing packet processors using “Click router” modular software framework. 
3. Establishing infrastructure for the mini-Internet, single-hop wireless networks, multi-hop
wireless mesh and sensor networks, power line communication networks, home phone line 
networks.
4. Studies related to the performance analysis of various protocols over on different network
5. Development of novel routing algorithms, transport layer mechanisms, and services for next
generation networks.
6. Setting up planet-lab infrastructure (which will essentially become part of the global
distributed computing platform created over the Internet by connecting over 500+ sites). This 
allows the students and researchers not only to understand the traffic patterns on the Internet 
but also to develop new technologies/applications on the Internet for distributed storage, 
networking mapping, peer-to-peer systems, content distribution service, and cloud 
computing.
The lab provides software and hardware infrastructure for carrying out experiments in the
field of Control Systems, Microprocessor and DSP. Broadly, the lab includes the following 
experimental setup: 
1. Control Systems
(a) Ball & Beam System from Quanser 
(b) Magnetic Levitation System from Quanser 
(c) Inverted Pendulum System from Quanser 
(d) Software include Scilab / MatLab
2. DSP Lab Equipment 
3. Microprocessor Lab
In this laboratory the students make and test their analog and digital circuits by using all
kinds of circuit components like diode, transistor, op-amps, and clocks. The lab has following 
equipment:
1. Arbitrary Function Generator from Agilent 
2. Digital Oscilloscope from Agilent 
3. Programmable Power Supply from Scientific 
4. 6 1/2 BIT DMM from Agilent
The mission of Instrumentation and Communication Laboratory is to provide platform for
UG and PG students on research and hands-on learning in Measurement and Automation 
Technology. The state-of-the-art facilities at this laboratory offer innovative research opportunities 
in the astronomical space of communication and real time measurement technology. The 
experienced Lab team nurtures students' talent in research and offers an opportunity for 
developing sophisticated measurement, test, control systems, data analysis system and next 
generation communication technologies.

Students also develop theoretical and practical competence in (i) building baseband
communication circuits, (ii) the application of NI LabVIEW graphical programming software, (iii) 
the PXI based NI RF/Wireless measurement stand, (iv) evaluating NI WSNs and LabVIEW 
software, adjusting a software-defined radio system, measuring the parameters of studied antennas 
and (v) the operation of analog modulation schemes. NI-Lab contains software and hardware 
subsystems which enable rapid prototyping and development of embedded systems for various 
applications. Currently, this lab constitutes the following setups:
1. NI ELVIS based Communication Systems and Theory Teaching Stand 
2. Large MIMO Stand for Spectral, Channel Efficiency Studies and New Standard Development 
3. Protocols Stand for WLAN, WiMAX, GPS, RFID, Zigbee, GSM, CDMA, WCDMA, Bluetooth 
4. FPGA-enabled Software Defined Radio Stand for Custom Communication Scheme Development
and Research
5. Basic Analog and Digital Communication Techniques Teaching Stand 
6. Wireless Sensor Networks Stand 
7. Signal Intelligence and Wireless Spectral Monitoring Stand 
8. Wireless Prototype Characterization and Testing Stand 
9. FPGA based protocol development for base-band studies and signal processing 
10. VNA based Antenna Characterization Stand 
11. Fiber Optic Communication Stands 
12. Network Based Manufacturing 
13. USRP (Universal Software Radio Peripheral) based wireless communication system for physical
layer design, record and playback, signal intelligence, algorithm validation and more.
14. Network Communication and Manufacturing Control Stand
This lab has contributed immensely to the learning and research activities at IIT Jodhpur.
Communications and Networking Lab, Intelligent Instrumentation, System Analysis Techniques 
and Bio-Sensors courses are being offered through this lab for both graduate and undergraduate 
students. The lab has provided the right hardware and software tools for many industrial 
consultancy projects, including the development of DRM/DRM+ IP for digital radio standards, 
Link budget design for Marine environment, DRFM based Radar echo simulator and Blind Signal 
Demodulator. Other projects being done in the lab are development of affordable wireless video 
transmission systems, cognitive radio and Zigbee protocol development.
The power electronics laboratory is used for undergraduate studies and research in the area of
power electronics based power conversion systems, control systems and drives. The laboratory 
facilitates for faculty and students to conduct research in the areas power converters and AC/DC 
micro-grid. The laboratory is equipped with state-of-art test and measurement instruments, 
converters, power supplies and programming boards. Major equipment available in this lab are:
1. High Precision power Analyzer –YOKOGAWA WT3000. 
2. DSO- Tektronix 200MHz (DPO 2024) and 1GHz (DPO 4104B). 
3. Function Generator-Tektronix AFG 3021B. 
4. Power Supply: 0-30V, 1A; 0-32V, 3A; 0-32, 10A. 
5. Three phase inverter drive. 
6. Three phase inverter stacks. 
7. DC-DC converters. 
8. Differential currents Probes. 
9. Current clamps. 
10. Isolation Transformers. 
11. FPGA training kits and programming boards.

IIT Jodhpur has an advanced robotics laboratory for PG/UG education and research. The
infrastructure includes the following:
1. Vicon Motion Tracking System 
2. Mobile Manipulator comprising of Barret WAM ARM mounted on a PowerBot Mobile robot
platform
3. Pioneer P3-DX mobile robots - 10 units 
4. Turtlebot 
5. Wheel Chair 
6. Force Plate 
7. Infrastructure for Mobile Robotics - Navigation, Path-planning, SLAM 
8. Dynamic and Kinematic Control problem, Redundancy Resolution, Inverse Kinematics of
Manipulators and Mobile Manipulators, Visual Servoing, and
9. GAIT Analysis and Robot Assisted Rehabilitation
In the Advance Manufacturing Laboratory, CAD model of object is prepared using 3D
modelling software like ProE, SolidWorks, and Catia. FE analysis is carried out using Analysis 
software like Ansys, Nastran/Patran and precision manufacturing is carried out using CNC 
programing/CNC machines and Rapid Prototyping Machine/ 3D Printer. The manufactured 
components are characterised for mechanical behaviour using UTM, Hardness testers, Impact 
testers etc. The role of CNC machines in increasing flexibility and precision of the product to be 
manufactured and, increasing productivity are illustrated. The Advance Manufacturing Laboratory 
of institute is equipped with following facilities:
1. CAD Section 
2. Precision Machining Section 
3. Rapid Prototyping Section 
4. Mechanical Behaviour Characterisation section

Central workshop is the central facility of Institute, consisting of various workshops such as
Welding shop, Carpentry shop, Fitting shop, Sheet metal shop, Foundry and Heat treatment shop 
and Machine shop. Undergraduate Students get hands on experience in above sections by doing the 
job work and carrying out projects as part of their coursework and also students utilize the facilities 
for fabrication purpose of their academic projects. It also supports the R&D projects of the institute 
handled by various Faculty Members and Ph.D. and M.Tech. Thesis work of research scholars by 
providing them assistance in fabrication of their research set-ups. The following machines and 
equipment are available in the Central Workshop:
1. Welding fume extraction down draft table 
2. Multi process welding equipment 
3. Portable single phase MIG/MAG 
4. AC/DC welding equipment 
5. MIG/MAG welding equipment 
6. Treadle operated shearing Machine 
7. Hand operated Folding Machine 
8. Kaizen Muffle Furnace 
9. Hand operated Jeeny or Burying Machine 
10. Motorized Circle cutting Machine 
11. Hand operated Circle cutting Machine 
12. Hydraulic shearing Machine 
13. Portable Heating Plant 
14. Portable hardening plant 
15. Forging Heating Plant 
16. Aluminium Melting Plant 
17. Fitting Table 
18. Mould Making Facility 
19. Portable Tool Grinder

Dynamics and Vibration Laboratory is well equipped with various mechanisms such as
Motorized Gyroscope Apparatus, Static and Dynamic Balancing Apparatus, Universal Governor 
Apparatus, Coriolis Component of Acceleration Apparatus, Epicyclic Gear Train Apparatus, Cam 
Analysis Machine Apparatus, Universal Vibration Apparatus, Stroboscope and Tachometer 10 in 
helping the students to understand the behavior of the various mechanisms and forces acting on 
them.
In addition, the laboratory is also equipped with various vibration measuring instruments
for computing the vibration characteristics of a machine or structures and equipment for vibrating 
the machine or structures in order to finds its resonance characteristics in various environmental 
conditions. Following equipment are available for measuring and/or testing vibration 
characteristics of elements to structures.

In order to familiarize students to Electrical Machines properties & characteristics, IIT
Jodhpur has established “Electro Mechanical Energy Conversion Laboratory” and has continually 
been developing the potential of its lab facility. In this lab, state-of-the-art “Electrical Engineering” 
facilitates the students to empower their potential by familiarizing themselves with the 
fundamental of electro-mechanical energy conversion process, including several practical & 
industrial applications of machines in true applicable environment. This lab occupies conventional 
as well as modern equipment to fulfil the basic and modern technological requirements with 
continual developing efforts.
At Fluid Mechanics Laboratory students learn about the following:
1. Analyses and evaluation of experimental data 
2. Comparison between theoretical models and experimental data 
3. How to design a fluid mechanical and heat transfer system e.g. a piping system considering
various technical aspects, heat exchanger, thermal energy storage, receiver, wind catcher, 
volumetric air receiver.
In addition to the above, this laboratory aims at generating innovative ideas in students by
promoting the design of experiments and small scale projects. At present in the fluid mechanics 
laboratory are conducted experiments on losses in pipes (smooth/rough) and fittings (e.g. valves, 
bends), comparison between different flow meters, particle image velocimetry technique, Hot-wire 
anemometer, labscale sub-sonic wind tunnel for- pressure distribution around a cylinder/air-foil, 
lift and drag balance, boundary layer development, weather monitoring. Furthermore the lab 
provides training on standard software, such as, CFAST for fire simulation.

The Heat Transfer Laboratory is equipped with the demonstration of various thermometry
techniques, heat exchange system, ventilation system, Natural and forced convection system, heat 
conduction unit for different materials, lab and industrial-scale solar water heater system, and 
thermal radiation unit. All these equipment are installed with respective software.
For testing, calibration and research purpose in these laboratories, various equipment such
as Laser Doppler Velocimeter with Particle Analyzer, pressure and temperature calibration, blower 
with variable flow, pressure transducers, differential pressure transducers, turbine test rig, turbo-
machine test rig, IC engine test rig etc., have been procured.
Moreover, multi-purpose test set up is being indigenously designed and the components /
sub-systems involved are being fabricated locally. This system aims at investigation and evaluation 
of solar thermal sub-systems such as volumetric air receiver, thermal energy storage, air-water heat 
exchange systems and their simultaneous operation. Devices such as earth air heat exchange 
system, wind catcher, and air-cooled heat exchange systems are being fabricated and tested for 
certain applications.
High Temperature Solar Thermal Laboratory is one of the specialized laboratories at IIT
Jodhpur. The aim of this laboratory is to:
1. Address fundamental aspects of fluid flow and heat transfer related problems, like, dust
deposition, and
2. Design and analysis of sub-systems for concentrated solar thermal systems.
Some of the sub-systems being designed and analyzed in this laboratory are:
(a) Open Volumetric Air Receiver for process heat applications 
(b) Compact heat exchanger 
(c) Solar Convective Furnace
This laboratory includes test facility, such as, Solar Air Tower Simulator (SATS) facility,
advanced research grade equipment like Laser Doppler Velocimetry. SATS facility includes, open 
volumetric air receiver, thermal energy storage, air-water heat exchanger and is being extended 
with solar convective furnace.
The material testing lab of the institute provides facilities to test samples of different types of
materials to find out their mechanical properties like modulus of elasticity, tensile and compressive 
strength, stress strain curve, bending properties, hardness etc. The lab is equipped with following 
test equipment:
1. Universal testing Machine 5-50 kN 
2. Rockwell Tester 
3. Brinell Tester 
4. Vickers Tester 
5. Poldi Hardness Tester 
6. Portable hardness tester

To resolve most daunting challenge of this world—energy needs—and also our nation’s
heavy reliance on fossil fuels, Renewable Energy Laboratory (REL) promotes rigorous and objective 
empirical research at IIT Jodhpur on issues related to energy and environment. REL focuses on 
designing, testing, and disseminating renewable and efficient energy system. The mission of REL is 
to help these technologies to realize their full potential to contribute to environmentally sustainable 
development in industrial and developing countries. In the renewable energy field, expert faculty 
and students at this Laboratory are currently striving to create an innovative system to efficiently 
harness energy from sunlight and wind power. REL has computer interfaced systems and 
approximately 30 students can work at a time. Students are the greatest resource of REL and IIT 
Jodhpur has made substantial commitment to the area of renewable energy and been providing all 
required resources to execute a viable plan and innovative research at REL. One aspect of the 
evolution of REL is the development of collaborative partnership with other academic and 
industrial groups. In the near future, it will be a hub for training and public-private sector 
collaboration. Recently, the lab has started a consultancy project, with Panasonic R & D India Pvt. 
Ltd., on the prototyping of microbial fuel cells. In addition, the lab has started work on data 
collection, interpretation, and analysis of PV power plants less than 5 MW in Rajasthan and Gujarat.
The Renewable Energy Laboratory uses the following equipment:
1. Wind power of 2KW Charge controller ~12V, Synchronous generator with permanent magnets
~12V, Lamp board ~12V, Off grid inverter etc.
2. PEM Fuel cell Fuel cell with DC converter, Electronic load, Metal hydride storage cell,
3. Advanced Photovoltaics Solar module simulation model 23V/2A, Solar module with solar
altitude emulator, Solar charge controller 12/24V, 6A, Solar accumulator 12V, 7Ah, Off grid 
inverter 230V, 275VA etc.
4. Combined RF/DC Sputtering Unit for Coatings Applications.
The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) has selected the IIT Jodhpur campus
site as one of their solar radiation centers. Solar radiation measurement (Global and Direct), 
Humidity, Ambient temperature, Rain gauge and wind speed measurement are carried out at this 
center and the data is transmitted via a satellite link to the MNRE nodal center C-WET in Chennai. 
The instruments in this laboratory are powered by a couple of solar panels. The data collected from 
this center enables the solar resource assessment required for the setting up of solar thermal and 
solar photovoltaic power plants as outlined in the Jawaharlal Nehru National Solar Mission 
(JNNSM).
This laboratory is involved in the understanding of information processing by various kinds
of biomolecules and related synthetic molecules. The process involves in using a single molecule 
first and then a group of molecule on a given interface. The interaction among the molecules in a 
given external stimuli will help us understanding the communication among them.

IIT Jodhpur has created an excellent facility in the field of material characterization.
Recently an additional dimension has been added to it by procuring magnetic property 
measurement system (MPMS). MPMS (SQUID) is getting installed in coming few months. This will 
provide a wide temperature 2 K – 1000 K range for both DC and AC magnetic measurements in 
conjunction with field dependent magnetic measurements. Such measurements will help to 
understand magnetic properties and associated spin dynamics in magnetic materials.
The research focuses on the development of novel materials for different applications
including materials for energy generation and storage. The current work includes the development 
of solution processable CIGS compound semiconductor materials for solar cell applications and 
transition metal oxide based materials for lithium ion batteries and supercapacitor applications. The 
laboratory is equipped with synthesis of bulk and thin films techniques such as sputtering, sol-gel 
process assembly etc., and numerous characterization techniques such as X-ray diffraction, 
Scanning electron microscope, Optical spectroscopic techniques, LCR meter, ferroic measurement 
system for bulk samples etc.
In addition, the group is also focusing on the development of multifunctional materials for
different applications such as solar selective coatings, ferroic materials for high frequency absorbing 
system, and magnetic particles for different applications. The laboratory is equipped with state-of-
the-art facilities to carry out thermal analysis, electrochemical analysis, surface morphology studies, 
separation techniques for chemicals, electrical conductivity measurement devices, glove box etc.
The mission of the Physics laboratory at IIT Jodhpur is to provide students with experiential
knowledge in basic physics. This laboratory has state-of-the-art facilities including specific 
equipment and offers different experiments in Mechanics, Waves, Electricity, Magnetism, and 
Optics. The lab has facilities for experimenting with Speed of Light, Zeeman Effect, and Michelson 
Interferometer.

Computer Center
The Institute has a modern Computer Center, presently running on a gigabit LAN with
1Gbps internet bandwidth. It is the nucleus of all computing activities for Students, Staff Members 
and Faculty Members. Several terminals running on Windows and GNU/Linux operating systems 
across the campus provide access to several licensed software, like MatLab, Mathematica, Cadence, 
Mentor Graphic, Ansys, PSCAD and Solidworks. A 802.11/b/g/n Wi-Fi service is enabled in the 
academic and residential areas. Also, the Computer Centre hosts a High Performance Computing 
cluster for scientific research. 
 
 
Resources
The Institute has five key resources at the Computer Center, namely, the Linux Operating
System, SVN Server, GIT Server, OwnCloud and various licensed application software that are 
used for academic and research purpose, have made it possible to offer the various resources and 
facilities. 
 
 
Facilities
The Institute extends three facilities, namely, networking, computing, Internet access, and
LDAP and Active Directory ID facilities through its Computer Center.
High Performance Computing 
Highly equipped laboratory facilities
Services
The Institute offers services like FTP, LDAP, HPC, Web Hosting, Network Connectivity,
VPN, EduRoam, and News Group, through its Computer Center.

Library
The Learning Hub, i.e., the library supports teaching and research activities of the Institute by
facilitating acquisition, organization and dissemination of knowledge resources, and also by 
providing library & information services to IIT Jodhpur community. The Learning Hub on the 
Permanent Campus of the Institute is sited pre-eminently at the entrance of the academic area of 
the Institute, stands as the tallest structure on the campus scaling over 15m from the ground; keeps 
time for the entire campus with a 4-way clock at the clock tower, only the third in the city of 
Jodhpur. It functions with the guidance of Library Committee, which has representatives from all 
Departments, and Student Representatives.
The Learning Hub, Library Building in Permanent Campus, IIT Jodhpur
Collection
The Library has a rich and growing collection of 13,000 volumes of books (approx.), which
include textbooks, and books of general and reference nature. A wide range of scholarly journals 
and databases are also subscribed from various sources for the academic and research purposes of 
the Institute.

S.No. Description Statistics
1. Books added Total 402
b. Number of volumes added 402
a. Fulltext resources 12
3. Document Supply & Inter Library Loan service requested fulfilled Total 124
b. Books arranged on Inter Library Loans 0
a. Number of book check-outs 12,613
c. Number of book renewals 874
Services & Facilities
The following services and facilities are being provided by the Library to its registered users.
1. Member & Circulation Services, 
2. Orientation & User Education, 
3. Borrowing Facility, 
4. Reference & Information Service, 
5. Course Reserves, 
6. Current Awareness Service, 
7. Inter Library Loan & Document Supply, and 
8. Digital Library Facility & Services.
Digital resources are accessible through the Library website, which is a comprehensive site
maintained by Library. These include the Library subscribed resources, online catalogue, lists of 
useful resources accessible in the open domain like the open access journals, books, repositories, 
video lectures, open courseware. These resources are continuously updated.
Also, Library maintains a portal for hosting bibliographic listing of the Faculty Publications.
Additionally, a course guide portal has also been developed and maintained by Library, wherein, 
resources i.e., books available in Library, subscribed journals, resources accessible in open domain 
are listed and linked, course-wise. This platform is very useful for the students in finding topical 
and course-wise resources. Library also provides remote access to the subscribed scholarly 
resources and anti-plagiarism checking.
Stacks & General Section 
Course Reserves & Digital Library Section

Details of Journal Resources
Library has licensed the following journal resources in this year, for teaching, research and
private study of its academic community. 
1. Association of Computing Machinery Digital Library, 
2. American Chemical Society Journals, 
3. American Physical Society Journals, 
4. American Society for Mechanical Engineers Digital Library, 
5. IEL (IEEE) Online Digital Library, 
6. Institute for Studies in Industrial Development (ISID) Database, 
7. JStor Archives, 
8. MathSciNet, 
9. Nature Journal, 
10. Oxford University Press Journals, 
11. Elsevier Science Journals, 
12. Society of Industrial & Applied Mathematics Journals, and 
13. Springer Journals. 
 
 
Also, the Library is a core member of the eShodhSindhu: Consortium for Higher Education
Electronic Resources, operated by INFLIBNET Center, Gandhinagar, through which subscriptions to 
major resources are fulfilled. Besides, the Library is a member of DEveloping Libraries NETwork 
(DELNET), New Delhi through which the Library meets its Inter Library Loan requirements. 
 
 
Library subscribes to Plagiarism Detection Tool and Remote Access Tool for its users.
Orientation sessions and Library Instruction sessions for Students are conducted by the Library 
Staff Members during registration of new students and on demand.

Primary Health Center
IIT Jodhpur provides round the clock health care facilities to Students, Faculty and Staff
Members of the Institute, at its Permanent Campus. This fully equipped and self-sufficient facility is 
run by M/s. Goyal Hospital & Research Center Private Limited, Jodhpur. Presently, the following 
facilities available at the Primary Health Center (PHC). 
1. Qualified Medical Doctors, 
2. Regular Visits of Specialist Doctors, 
3. Paramedical Staff, 
4. Physiotherapy Unit, 
5. Pharmacy, 
6. 24 Hours Emergency Room, and 
7. an ICU Ambulance.
Besides this fully functional, round-the-clock, ISO Certified, Primary Health Center (PHC)
in the campus, IIT Jodhpur is fortunate to have in the city an all new state-of-the-art All India 
Institute of Medical Sciences, the associated Hospitals of the S. N. Medical College and some 
specialized hospitals. The Institute has agreements with a few prominent hospitals for priority 
treatment to its employees and students. These include: Goyal Hospital and Research Center, Medi 
Pulse Hospital, and Vasan Eye Care Hospital.
The Health Center coordinates and supervises the treatment of students, employees, and
their dependents during hospitalization in other hospitals that are empaneled by the Institute, to 
provide in-patient care. On request, the Health Center extends its health care services to Institute 
visitors during their stay in the residential campus. Under emergency circumstances medical 
services are also extended to the non-IIT Jodhpur community residents in the residential campus. 
Details like patient records, medicine procurement/disbursement, assets, equipment of Health 
Center are all computerized.
Sports Facilities
Sports and games facilities to students are provided on campus. Facilities for playing Basket
Ball, Volley Ball, Cricket, Lawn Tennis and Table Tennis have been developed. Jogging and running 
track is available. There is a modest badminton facility in every hostel. Development of facilities for 
few more sports are underway. Students also enjoy a gymnasium facility at the residential campus.
Lawn Tennis Court in Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur 
Basket Ball Court in Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur

SC/ST Cell
Women Cell
The Women Cell, IIT Jodhpur, functions in accordance with the provisions contained in
Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. The 
following are some activities organized by the Women Cell during FY 2018-19.
The 2019 International Women’s Day was celebrated at the Indian Institute of Technology
Jodhpur on 8 March 2019. The program was organized by the Women Cell, IIT Jodhpur. Dr. Kshema 
Prakash, Convenor, Women Cell, IIT Jodhpur, introduced the program to the guest gathering. The 
event had an invited talk by Ms. Nisha Johari, Director of Marketing and Product Development, 
Johari Digital Healthcare Ltd., Jodhpur. She shared her life experiences as a woman entrepreneur 
and her journey in evolving the company. A Panel Discussion on the theme “Think equal, build 
smart, innovate for change”, focusing on innovative ways in which we can advance gender equality 
and the empowerment of women, followed the invited talk. The panel discussion was moderated by 
Dr. Kirankumar R. Hiremath, Assistant Professor, IIT Jodhpur with panel members as Ms. Nisha 
Johari, Director of Marketing and Product Development, Johari Digital Healthcare Ltd., Jodhpur, Dr. 
(Ms.) Lipika Dey, Principal Scientist, TCS Innovation Labs, New Delhi, Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, 
Director, IIT Jodhpur, and faculty members, namely Dr. Samanwita Pal, Dr. Sushmita Jha, Dr. 
Rajlaxmi Chouhan, and Dr. Kirankumar R. Hiremath. Prayrika Sharma, 3rd year B. Tech. student 
recited a poem written by her on this occasion. Dr. (Ms.) Lipika Dey, Principal Scientist, TCS 
Innovation Labs, New Delhi read out a play based on a woman’s struggle between new ambitions 
and old restrains. Thereafter, Professor Santanu Chauhuri, Director, IIT Jodhpur, welcomed the 
gathering and shared his thoughts on the occasion. In closing Professor Kirankumar Hiremath, 
Member, Women Cell, IIT Jodhpur, proposed a vote of thanks.
Panel Discussion during International Women’s Day Celebration 
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury presenting the memento to the Chief Guest
Ms. Nisha Johari

( 1) Sports & Games Society
STUDENT ACTIVITIES
Students Gymkhana
Students Gymkhana is the organized system of self-governance of the activities of the Student
Body at the Institute level. The Students Gymkhana of IIT Jodhpur is established to: 
(1) Uphold the spirit of cooperation, fraternity and social bonding among all Students of the Institute,
and
(2) Provide a platform for organizing themselves, undertake self-governance, and organize creative
activities for the all-rounded mental, physical, social and cultural growth of students.
Similarly, the student activities at the hostel level are organised through Students Regatta.
The Students of the Institute associate and establish the Constitution of the Students Gymkhana
in keeping with the tenets of the Gymkhana, and agree to abide by it in all walks of life during their 
student life. The Students Gymkhana hosts its activities through seven Student Societies, and in turn, 
each Society comprises of several clubs. A Society is a thematic community of students, furthering the 
cause of the theme among the students. These societies fulfil the varied interests of the students and 
contribute to their holistic development.
These seven societies are:
(1) Sports & Games Society, 
(2) Cultural & Literary Society, 
(3) Design & Arts Society, 
(4) Science & Technology Society,
(5) Academics & Careers Society,
(6) Campus Life Society, and 
(7) Elected Representatives Society.
Under the overall leadership of the General Secretary, Students Gymkhana, and with the
overall guidance of Associate Dean (Students), these societies are run by students with help of 
Student Secretaries and Faculty Advisors for each society.
Sports & Games produce remarkable athletes, and can nurture humble human beings, who have
internalised: 
(1) The grace of learning to face victory with humility and defeat with grace; and 
(2) The force multiplier effect of teamwork.
The Sports & Games Society has been formed with an intent to promote this spirit, by providing
to the campus community facilities for sports & games. This Society aims to inculcate this as essential 
part of every student’s life. This society deals with all the sports (formal physical activities carried out 
under an agreed set of formal rules with the intent of competition, self-enjoyment or a combination of 
these intents) and games (informal physical activities carried out under a mutually agreed set of informal 
rules with the intent of recreation) at the Institute level. It is headed by the Student Secretary (Sports & 
Games Society), and its membership consists of: 
(i) Captains of all Institute Teams of the various Sports and Games; and 
(ii) Hostel Secretary (Sports & Games Society) of all the Hostels.

( 2) Culture & Literary Society
( 3) Design & Arts Society
The Sports & Games Society of IIT Jodhpur Students Gymkhana formally adopts all Student
Sports & Games, which are included in the annual Inter-IIT Students Sports Meet. These sports include 
Aquatics, Athletics, Badminton, Basketball, Bridge, Chess, Cricket, Football, Gymnastics, Hockey, 
Kabaddi, Lawn Tennis, Squash, Table Tennis, Volleyball and Weightlifting.
Student Culture & Literary activities produce remarkable citizens of the country, and can
nurture knowledgeable and skilled human beings, who have internalised: 
(1) The diverse cultures of India with equal respect for all; and 
(2) The richness of traditional & modern literature of India with desire to share with others.
With this intent of promoting this spirit, Students Gymkhana of IIT Jodhpur provides to the
campus community facilities for culture & literary activities. The Student Culture & Literary Society of 
IIT Jodhpur aims to inculcate this as essential part of every student's life. 
This society deals with all the cultural and literary activities at the Institute level. It is headed by the 
Student Secretary (Cultural & Literary Society), and its membership consists of: 
(i) Captains of all Institute Teams of the various Cultural and Literary activities; and 
(ii) Hostel Secretary (Cultural & Literary Society) of all the Hostels.
The Cultural & Literary Society of IIT Jodhpur Students Gymkhana formally adopts all Student
Culture & Literary activities, which are included in the annual Inter-IIT level and other national level 
Students Culture & Literary Festivals. These include Student Music Activities, Student Dance Activities, 
Student Drama Activities, Student Film Activities, Student Literature Activities, Student Quiz Activities, 
Student Book Activities and Student Newsletter Activities as a Club each.
Design & Arts activities produce skilful citizens of the country, and can nurture artistic and
skilled human beings, who have internalised: 
(1) The diverse creative arts & crafts of India with equal respect for all; and 
(2) The richness of traditional & modern designs of India with desire to share with others.
With this intent of promoting this spirit, Students Gymkhana of IIT Jodhpur provides to the
campus community facilities for culture & literary activities. The Student Design & Arts Society of IIT 
Jodhpur aims to inculcate this as essential part of every student's life. 
This society deals with all the design and arts activities at the Institute level. It is headed by the Student 
Secretary (Design & Arts Society), and its membership consists of: 
(i) Captains of all Institute Teams of the various design and arts activities; and 
(ii) Hostel Secretary (Design & Arts Society) of all the Hostels.
The Design & Arts Society of IIT Jodhpur Students Gymkhana formally adopts all Student
design and arts activities, which are included in the annual Inter-IIT level and other national level 
Students Design & Arts Festivals. These include Student Animation Activities, Student Design Activities, 
Student Fine Arts Activities, Student FM Radio Activities, Student Photography, Student Media, and 
Student Cinematography as a Club each.

( 4) Science & Technology Society
( 5) Academics & Careers Society
Science & Technology activities produce skilful citizens of the country, and can nurture artistic
and skilled human beings, who have internalised: 
(1) The intriguing magic of science and importance of basic, applied and targeted research; and 
(2) The challenges of undertaking technology development for the good of the nation.
Students Gymkhana of IIT Jodhpur intends to promote this inquisitiveness towards science and
technology, by providing to the campus community facilities for Science & Technology activities. The 
Student Science & Technology Society of IIT Jodhpur aims to inculcate this as essential training of every 
student at the Institute.
This society deals with all the science and technology activities at the Institute level. It is headed
by the Student Secretary (Science & Technology Society), and its membership consists of: 
(i) Captains of all Institute Teams of the various Science and Technology activities; and 
(ii) Hostel Secretary (Science & Technology Society) of all the Hostels.
The Science & Technology Society of IIT Jodhpur Students Gymkhana formally adopts all
Student Science & Technology activities, which are included in the annual Inter-IIT level and other 
national level Students Science & Technology Festivals. These include Student Automobile Activities, 
Student Robotics Activities, Student Astronomy Activities, Student Aeromodeling Activities, Student 
Science Activities, Student Electronics Activities and Student Computer Programming Activities as a 
Club each.
Academics & Careers are two basic premises of presence of student at the Institute. Each student
is expected to internalise:
(1) A basic competence (knowledge, skill and attitude) in the discipline of the Program registered for;
and
(2) Clarity on distinction between jobs and careers, and prepare for a planned career in the discipline
chosen for the study.
Students Gymkhana of IIT Jodhpur wishes to provide a platform to students to represent their
desires, difficulties and concerns during the process of education, by providing a mechanism of 
representation through the Academics & Careers Society. The Student Academics & Careers Society of 
IIT Jodhpur aims to actively contribute to providing inputs on academic programs, curricula, teaching 
and infrastructure through the Office of Academics of the Institute.
This society deals with all the student academics and careers related activities at the Institute
level. It is headed by the Student Secretary (Academics & Careers Society), and its membership consists 
of: 
(i) Captains of all Institute Clubs of the various student Academics and Careers related activities; and 
(ii) Hostel Secretary (Academics & Careers Society) of all the Hostels.
The Academics & Careers Society of IIT Jodhpur Students Gymkhana formally adopts all

( 6) Campus Life Society
( 7) Elected Representatives Society
Student Academics & Careers activities, which are included in the annual Inter-IIT level and other 
national level Students Academics & Careers Events. These include Student Career Planning Activities, 
Student Communications Development Activities, Student Entrepreneurship Skills Development 
Activities and Student Personality Development Activities as a Club each.
Campus Fraternity of students needs to build the personal side of students of life, beyond the
purpose of building academic side of life at the Institute. Each student is expected to internalise issues 
associated with: 
(1) The basic needs of shelter and food; and 
(2) The safety, health and hygiene.
To provide a platform to students to get real-life experiences and to improve quality of holistic
life of students on campus, the Campus Life Society was formed. Also, Students Gymkhana and Students 
Regatta of IIT Jodhpur actively help in providing the needed interactions and experiences to be able to 
make considered decision to choose and prepare for a career after graduating from the Institute. The 
Student Campus Life Society actively works with the Office of Students of the Institute.
This society deals with all the student campus life related activities at the Institute level. It is
headed by the Student Secretary (Campus Life Society), and its membership consists of: 
(i) Captains of all Institute Clubs of the various student Campus Life related activities; 
(ii) Hostel Secretaries (Campus Life Society) of all the Hostels; 
(iii) Faculty Member Mentors; 
(iv) Staff Member Mentors; and 
(v) Senior Student Mentors.
The Campus Life Society of IIT Jodhpur Students Gymkhana formally adopts all Student
Campus Fraternity activities at the Institute, including Student Legacy Activities, Student City Tourist 
Services, Student Dining Services, Student Informal Events, Student Picnics and Social Service Activities 
as a Club each.
Student Elected Representatives form a critical interface of students with the Institute, to better
the situation on all fronts related to study & living on the campus, and to learn & practice the 
constitutional way of conducting oneself in & as a community of students. The Student Elected 
Representatives Society actively works with the Dean (Students).
This society deals with all the student matters specific to each group (program-wise and year-
wise) at the Institute level. Student Elections and Student Conduct activities are the major activities of the 
Student Elected Representatives Society. It is headed by the Student Secretary of the Student Elected 
Representatives Society (SERS), and its membership consists of all Student Elected Representatives 
elected from each group of students.

Student Fests & Events
The Students Gymkhana of the Institute organizes events with dual purpose. On the one
hand, these events help engage students in creative work during their leisure hours and thereby 
build skills and interests in them. And, on the other side, these events help students to self-organise 
themselves and provide platforms for others to excel.
Besides celebrating the Gymkhana Day, the events organized by the Students Gymkhana
can be seen in two streams, namely: 
1. Inter-Institute Festivals and Tournaments; and 
2. Intra-Institute Festivals and Championships.
Like every year, during FY 2018-19 too, the students were successful in nurturing a culture
filled with energy and initiative. They have organized events which served as a medium of 
communication and bonding amongst themselves. Major festivals like Janmashtami, Ganesh 
Chaturthi, Navratri, Diwali, Sankranti, Eid and Holi were celebrated with great enthusiasm. Sports 
activities were also regularly conducted to encourage sportsmanship, which were supported by the 
Faculty Members.
IGNUS, the annual technical-cultural-social festival of IIT Jodhpur was organized at IIT
Jodhpur during 21-24 February, 2019. The technofest included several technical events which was 
attended by representations from various institutions. The event also included performances by 
various National and International artists.
Glimpse of IGNUS ‘19

Student Accolades
During the Financial Year 2018-19, students of the Institute received their share of accolades.
(1) Inter-IIT Tech Meet 2018: A contingent of 32 students participated in the Inter-IIT TechMeet
2018 held in IIT Bombay, and won one Gold Medal and two Bronze Medals. The Gold Medal 
was won in the event BETiC Innovation Challenge by the team comprising Dhruv Krishna, 
Aman Goel, Pushpank Katare, Deepak Arjariya, Subham Suresh Gattani, Bhaskar Vijay, 
Mukesh Sharma, and Ashutosh Pandey. The Bronze Medal was won in the Campus 
Sustainability Challenge by the team mentored by Dr. Ritu Gupta, comprising Kuldeep Singh 
Jangir, Shreyas Mahajan, Vaibhav Mishra, Aksh Chordia, Nikhil Srivastava, Aryan Singh, 
Shivang Khandelwal, Sanchit Tapadiya, Piyush Kumar, and Saksham Sanjay Banga. Another 
Bronze Medal was won in the Coding Hackathon by the team comprising Ajat Prabha, Sahil 
Harish Batra, Abhinav Suthar, and Saksham Sanjay Banga. The overall position of IIT Jodhpur 
in the TechMeet was 10th among all the participating IITs.
(2) DST & TI India Innovation Challenge Design Contest (IICDC) 2018: Two of our teams have
qualified for the quarterfinals of the DST & TI India Innovation Challenge Design Contest 
(IICDC) 2018. These teams comprise Eashan Jindal, Ankit Mittal, Arham Chordia, Akshay 
Goel, and Animesh Kumar Singh (for their project on automated quality control of crops), and 
Kanani Alishkumar Hareshkumar, Chakshu Gupta, Siddhant Shrikant Saoji, Sumanth U, and 
Srijan Agarwal (for their project on Netra - Indoor navigator for the visually impaired). This 
edition of IICDC witnessed participation of 26,511 students from 10,146 teams from all the 
states of India. Our two teams are among the 346 teams who will be moving ahead to the 
Quarterfinals Round.
(3) ACM ICPC Regional Rounds: Three teams from our Institute qualified for the ACM ICPC
Regional Rounds, out of which the team comprising Anurag Shah, Srijan Agarwal, and 
Shambhu Singh have received a rank 30 in the Regional rounds.
(4) IEEE Signal Processing Society Travel Grants 2018: Two of our PhD students received $1000 as
a part of the IEEE Signal Processing Society Travel Grant to attend two flagship international 
conferences of the IEEE Signal Processing Society. Hiteshi Jain (PhD Student, CSE) was 
awarded the travel grant for attending IEEE International Conference on Image Processing 
(ICIP) 2018 in Greece, and Deepak (PhD Student, EE) received the travel grant for attending 
IEEE Global Conference on Signal and Information Processing (GlobalSIP) 2018 in California, 
USA.
(5) Aditya Raj, Ph.D. Student, working under the supervision of Anil Kumar Tiwari, Assistant
Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, has been selected for the prestigious Newton 
Bhabha Ph.D. Placement program 2019. Under this program, he will work as a visiting 
researcher at Kingston University, London, under the supervision of Professor Maria G. 
Martini, for a period of four months. His visit is funded by the Department of Biotechnology 
(DBT), India and the British Council, UK.
(6) A team of second year students namely Anshul Ahuja, Aksh Chordia and Ayush Saxena
bagged the 3rd prize at the Microsoft AXLE 2019 organized at Bengaluru. In their project they 
developed a distributed IoT-based solution which can be deployed in different rooms of a 
building and acts as an early warning system and takes precautionary measures on detection 
of disasters. For instance, if an earthquake is detected, it will shutdown the water, gas and 
power supplies. They also developed an application that could predict and diagnose skin 
diseases.

(7) Megha Singh, Ph.D. Student, working with Abdul Gafoor Shaikh, Department of Electrical
Engineering, won the Best Paper Award in the track Power Systems and Smart Grid for the 
research paper “Location of Defective Bearing in three-phase Induction Motor using Stockwell 
Transform and Support Vector Machine” at the 2nd International Conference on Energy, 
Power and Environment (towards Smart Technology) organized by NIT, Meghalaya, during 1-
2 June 2018.
(8) Tushar Shinde, Ph.D. Student, working with Anil Kumar Tiwari, Assistant Professor,
Department of Electrical Engineering, has been awarded Winner's Prize of $1500 in 3 Minute 
Thesis Competition for a compelling oration on his research work at the IEEE International 
Conference on Image Processing (ICIP 2018), held during 7-10 October 2018 at Athens, Greece.
(9) Abhinav Srivastava, Ph.D. student, working with Ananya Debnath, Assistant Professor,
Department of Chemistry, received Best Poster Prize from Royal Society of Chemistry, for his 
research work at the International conference on Computational Fluids (CompFlu-2018) held 
during 06-09 December 2018 at Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee.
(10) Harshkooshal Kamlesh Gandhi, II Year B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering) Student has been
awarded Excellence in poster presentation. He has been given a Certificate of Appreciation and 
Rs. 10,000/- for the paper titled Asymmetric Pulse Propagation through Time-dynamic Gain-
loss Assisted Media jointly authored by Piyali Biswas, Bishnu P. Pal and Professor Somnath 
Ghosh. It was presented to him during the international conference PHOTONICS 2018: The 
International Conference on Fiber Optics and Photonics, 12-15 December 2018 at IIT Delhi.

Student Counseling Service
The Student Counseling Service is an integral part of IIT Jodhpur since 2008. Every year, it
strives to ensure that every student gets to know the Institute in intricate details and to help absorb 
all that the opportunities that the Institute creates. It works towards making the transition of new 
Students from their homes to the Institute a memorable one. The objective of Student Counseling 
Service is to provide friendly support to the new Students for their well-being during their stay on 
the campus and for their personal & professional developments. In essence, the Student Counseling 
Service promotes the development of students along three aspects, namely: 
(1) Academic: It provides information about different academic programs of the Institute, and
suggests efficient time management and study skills,
(2) Extra-Curricular: It strives to develop talents in students, and encourages them to discover their
extra-curricular interests/hobbies. Also, it provides an interface with the Institute activities, and 
provides a platform for interaction with the Institute; and
(3) Personal: It provides a cushion against homesickness, and assists in adjusting to the new
environment (including concerns and difficulties arising during their stay at the Institute) by 
providing personalised guidance. Also, it provides psycho-education and confidential referral 
services to students.
The Student Counseling Service is headed by a Faculty Member, as the Chairperson of the
Student Counseling Service Committee, and ably supported by Faculty Members, Staff Members 
and senior students. A full-time Student Counselor plays the role of growth coach, well-being 
moderator and psychological counselor. Besides, the Student Counseling Service strives to: 
(1) Maintain a ragging-free campus; 
(2) Organize Orientation Program for new students to acquaint them with the Institute; 
(3) Organize lectures and trainings on: (a) Career counseling, (b) Stress management, (c) Time
management, (d) Health care and hygiene, (e) Vocational training, (f) Relationships, (g) Cope 
with homesickness, (h) Addiction and others, and (i) motivational lectures by eminent speakers;
(4) Address academic issues of students, e.g., poor academic performance, basic IT skills and
language skills of students from non-English background; and
(5) Organize events for encouraging interaction among students of different years, and Staff and
Faculty Members.
The following are some activities organized by the Student Counseling Service during FY 2018-19.
The Orientation Program 2018 was organised during 23-29 July 2018. A week full of fun-
filled activities welcoming the students to college and making their transition from school to college 
smooth. Orientation week included motivating talks from guest speakers Dr. Arvind Bhatt and 
Smita Majumdar, a fun-filled trip to Mehrangarh Fort, a social drive to various government school 
in villages near Jodhpur. Arvind Bhatt, Director, Samvaad, advised students to not focus on 
problems but on selections. Compliment others, don’t criticize them and welcome criticism from 
your well-wishers, he said. Student Counseling Service in coordination with Border Security Force 
(BSF) organized a trip to Jaisalmer and Indo-Pak border outpost during 7 August 2018, 18 August 
2018 and 23 September 2018 for the newly joined students. Amit Lodha, IPS Officer, addressed these 
students during their visit and inspired them to be a patriotic citizen of India.

Welcome Program during Orientation Week 
Yoga session during Orientation Program
Group photo of Student Counseling Team 
Speaker during the Orientation Program
World Gratitude Day was organized at IIT Jodhpur on 21 September 2018. The activities
included a carnival with a series of social media posts, rides and open mic.

Campus Mentorship Program 
 
 
The Institute has launched a Campus Mentors Program in 2014, especially for the new
Students, wherein Faculty Members, Staff Members and senior Students work towards helping 
each new student towards: 
(a) Adjusting well in hostel life away from home and in his academic life, and 
(b) Keeping in touch with the student and his/her family members/guardians.
These on-campus friends and guides support and motivate new students in their personal
life and academic life. Also, through this association, Faculty Members get insider’s perspectives in 
the lives of students. This interaction will help both the teacher and the taught, to grow together as 
one community. Further, the Campus Mentors Program ensures that even parents of students get 
opportunities to interact with the Institute.

Student Placement Cell
The Office of Student Placements (OSP) is moving ahead in developing Student Career
Development Centre, which aims to create an encouraging atmosphere for students by 
providing them ample reminders to build competencies in sync with their dream careers, 
thereby ensuring their smooth landing into the professional world. The office performs duties 
related with creating awareness about career planning, soft skills enhancement along with 
coordinating with various companies, their interaction with the students, arranging pre-placement 
talks, tests, and interviews and activities related with placements.
In 2018-19, companies in core engineering, information and communication technology, and
banking sector, government and public sector organizations have visited IIT Jodhpur for 
placements.
Total 77 of our students i.e., 64 B.Tech. students and 13 M.Sc. and M.Tech. students, have
been placed with different companies in the year 2018-19.

S.No. Company Number of Students Selected per Branch Total Number of
Students Placed Total Number of
CSE ME EE Students Placed
1. Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) 1 1 2
2. Future First 1 1
3. Morgan Stanley 3 1 1 5
4. Amazon 4 4
5. Infosys 1 1
6. Tata Consultancy Services 3 3
7. Cipher 1 1 2
8. MAQ Software 4 4
9. LnT Infotech 2 2
10. Levadata 2 2
11. Maruti 1 1
12. Microsoft 3 3
13. Prototech 1 1
14. All on Block 2 1 3
15. SpeedLabs 1 1
16. Envestnet Yodlee 1 1 2
18. Linkbal Inc. (Japan) 1 1
19. SMS Data Tech (Japan) 1 1
21. Bill Dsk 1 1
22. Teevra Edutech 1 1
23. Career Launcher 2 1 3
24. Resonance 2 2
27. One Assist 1 1
28. Rao IIT 1 1
29. E Value Serve 2 2
30. Aakash Institute 1 1
31. CVRS Education Private Limited 1 1
32. Delhi Rounds 1 1
33. Goldman Sachs 2 1
Total 30 18 16 64
Details of companies and placements are as below.

S.No. S.No. Company Number of Students Selected per Branch Total
Number of
Students
Placed Total
1. V E Commercial 2 2
2. E lgi Equipments 1 1
5. R esonance 1 1
6. B harat Seats 1 1
7. M IC Engineering College 3 3
Total 5 7 1 13

Alumni Relations
The Alumni Relations Committee (ARC) of the Institute envisions building a mutually
beneficial relationship with the Alumni of the Institute by purposeful engagement. The Committee 
shall enable and facilitate activities that (1) Benefit our Alumni (2) Foster mutual trust and (3) 
Promote professional and technical excellence.
IIT Jodhpur values its Alumni as indispensable partners in its ultimate goal of Technology
development for India. The Institute seeks to nurture and support its Alumni into a strong and 
dependable resource. The ARC will facilitate this objective of the Institute and aspires to serve as a 
platform, where our Alumni, the Institute and other stakeholders can work together towards 
achieving the common goal of nation building.
The following are some activities organized by the Alumni Relations Committee during FY
The First Alumni Induction and Orientation Program of Indian Institute of Technology
Jodhpur took place on the noon of 25th August 2018, after the 4th Convocation ceremony of the 
Institute. Organized by the Alumni Relations Committee (ARC), this event oriented the fresh 
Graduates of the Institute about the activities of the Committee. Professor C. V. R. Murty, Director, IIT 
Jodhpur, in his Induction Address encouraged Alumni to reconnect with their alma mater and 
summarized mutual expectations in the Alumni-Institute relationship. Professor Shankar Manoharan, 
Chairman, ARC, spoke about the current focus of the Alumni Relations Committee and its proposed 
activities. On this occasion, the First Edition of the Alumni eNewsletter was jointly released by Vijay 
Kumar Paliwal and Nithin, V., the 2018 and 2017 President’s Gold Medal Winners in B.Tech., 
respectively. Thereafter, a Panel Discussion was organized with the Alumni. The panel comprised of 
the Director, IIT Jodhpur, Members of the ARC, and participants from the Alumni in attendance. The 
panel responded to several queries on the current and future activities of the ARC. Also, the panel 
encouraged Alumni to participate actively in the events organized for them by the ARC. Several 
suggestions and inputs from the participants were received and recorded. Professor Appala Naidu 
Gandi, Member Secretary, ARC, thanked the Panel and all participants for their presence, and 
proposed the vote of thanks for the program.
Panel Discussion with the Alumni 
Group Photo of the Director, ARC office Bearers and Alumni

The Alumni Relations Committee (ARC) organized the first Ask an Alumnus session at IIT
Jodhpur on 9 January 2019. Ayush Raina, currently a Graduate Student at Carnegie Mellon 
University (CMU), interacted with students. Ayush earned his B.Tech. in Mechanical Engineering 
from IIT Jodhpur in 2017. As a part of the Integrated Design Innovation Group at CMU, Ayush is 
now working on developing artificial intelligence that can apply human-like problem solving in any 
design process.
The audience benefited from his answers to questions on his current research, career
prospects, the application process for pursuing Ph.D. degree from overseas universities, in general 
and from Carnegie Mellon University, in particular, preparation for relevant exams, strategies for 
success in a competitive environment and his experience during his internship with Mercedes Benz.
Alumni Relations Committee members and Students during Ask an alumnus session

Program Year of Number
Total 155
Total 71
Total 97
Total 641
Grand Total 964
Registered Students in IIT Jodhpur
IIT Jodhpur has, as on 31 March 2019, a total of 964 students registered in various programs
offered by the Institute. The table and chart below depict the program-wise break-up of the 
registered students in the Institute.

IR 14 
Annual Report 2018-19