SOURCE_URL: http://old.iitj.ac.in/Post-Doctoral-Fellows/en/FAQs

Welcome to the section on Frequently Asked Questions. Potential applicants to PDF Positions have asked many questions. A few of such Frequently Asked Questions are addressed here, and are pertaining to the following categories: A. Appointment , B. Benefits , C. Professional Development , D. IIT Jodhpur & Surroundings , and E. Life @ IIT Jodhpur . Please send your unanswered questions to Associate Dean (Faculty) at ad_faculty@iitj.ac.in .
Welcome to the section on Frequently Asked Questions. Potential applicants to PDF Positions have asked many questions. A few of such Frequently Asked Questions are addressed here, and are pertaining to the following categories: A. Appointment , B. Benefits , C. Professional Development , D. IIT Jodhpur & Surroundings , and E. Life @ IIT Jodhpur .
Please send your unanswered questions to Associate Dean (Faculty) at ad_faculty@iitj.ac.in .
A. Appointment Related FAQs Q1. Who can apply for PDF Positions? Candidates with a Ph.D. degree in appropriate discipline, with consistently good academic record throughout 10th to Ph.D. with at least First Class Degree throughout, can apply for the Institute Post-Doctoral Fellowship positions, within five years of award of the Ph.D. program. Q2. Is there an age limit? Yes. Applicants for the Post-Doctoral Fellowship shall be less than 35 years of age, relaxable by 5 years for women and reserved category applicants. Q2. When can I apply? Applications to PDF positions are welcomed throughout the year. Q3. How do I apply? Individuals interested to apply for PDF Position at IIT Jodhpur are requested to fill the Online Application Form by clicking here . First time users need to first register and follow the instructions for submitting the required information. Once the information has been submitted, a PDF file will be generated of the submitted application details. Save this PDF file, print it, sign it, and send it to: Associate Dean (Faculty) Office of Faculty Main Building Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur NH 65, Nagaur Road Karwar Jodhpur 342037 India Q4. What is the duration of fellowship? The duration of the fellowship is initially for a period of 2 years, extendable for a further period of one more year based on the progress of the Post-Doctoral Fellow, and the recommendation of the Mentor Faculty Member and approval by a duly constituted committee for the purpose. Q5. Do I receive a Fellowship Grant? Yes. Post-Doctoral Fellow shall be paid a fellowship amount of Rs. 40,000/- per month. If available, suitable on-campus accommodation may be provided as per IIT Jodhpur norms. Alternatively, each fellow shall be paid House Rent Allowance of Rs. 8,000 per month. Q6. What other benefits do I receive? A PDF will be entitled to receive the following benefits: (a) Contingency Grant A contingency grant of Rs.1,00,000 per annum will be provided to the Post-Doctoral Fellow towards research equipment, consumables and contingency. The Fellow may use only upto 25% of the contingency grant for attending National or International Conferences/Workshops. (b) Medical benefits/Insurance Outpatient Medical benefits and limited Insurance will be provided for coverage. Q7. What happens after submitting application? After receipt of soft and hard copies of your application, the Selection Process begins. The process adopted for recruitment of Faculty Members at IIT Jodhpur involves five (5) levels, namely: Level 1: Screening based on the need in certain areas within the listed disciplines Level 2: Scrutiny based on academic background and research preparation presented in the Application Level 3: Seminar in person, or via mutual presence software on Internet Level 4: Interview in person, or via mutual presence software on Internet Q8. How much time does the selection process take? Applications will be screened for interview once every three months. Each cycle of selection should be completed in about three months. Q9. I am not an Indian citizen. Can I still apply for a PDF Position at IIT Jodhpur? Yes. However, your Application will need to be cleared by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India; the Institute will pursue the matter. Q10. I am a fresh Ph.D. holder. Can I apply for a PDF Position at IIT Jodhpur? Yes, ofcourse! Q11. I am in the process of defending my thesis. Can I apply for a PDF Position at IIT Jodhpur? Please apply immediately after submitting the thesis. Q12. What kinds of responsibilities are the PDFs at IIT Jodhpur entrusted with? Post-Doctoral Fellows are expected to pursue interdisciplinary research in one of the disciplines of the Institute with a Mentor Faculty Member who will essentially perform the role of a collaborator. Also the Post-Doctoral Fellow shall offer upto 7 hours per week for academic assistance, including in teaching, handling of tutorials and guiding laboratory work of students. Q13. What are the conditions for leaving the PDF position? If the Post-Doctoral Fellow wishes to leave the program before the end of the tenure, he/she can do so with prior consent of the PAC and by giving one month’s notice. The Fellowship may be terminated by the Institute, if the performance/conduct of the Fellow is unsatisfactory, by giving one month’s notice to the Fellow.
A. Appointment Related FAQs
A. Appointment Related FAQs
Who can apply for PDF Positions? Candidates with a Ph.D. degree in appropriate discipline, with consistently good academic record throughout 10th to Ph.D. with at least First Class Degree throughout, can apply for the Institute Post-Doctoral Fellowship positions, within five years of award of the Ph.D. program.
Is there an age limit? Yes. Applicants for the Post-Doctoral Fellowship shall be less than 35 years of age, relaxable by 5 years for women and reserved category applicants.
When can I apply? Applications to PDF positions are welcomed throughout the year.
How do I apply? Individuals interested to apply for PDF Position at IIT Jodhpur are requested to fill the Online Application Form by clicking here . First time users need to first register and follow the instructions for submitting the required information. Once the information has been submitted, a PDF file will be generated of the submitted application details. Save this PDF file, print it, sign it, and send it to: Associate Dean (Faculty) Office of Faculty Main Building Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur NH 65, Nagaur Road Karwar Jodhpur 342037 India
What is the duration of fellowship? The duration of the fellowship is initially for a period of 2 years, extendable for a further period of one more year based on the progress of the Post-Doctoral Fellow, and the recommendation of the Mentor Faculty Member and approval by a duly constituted committee for the purpose.
Do I receive a Fellowship Grant? Yes. Post-Doctoral Fellow shall be paid a fellowship amount of Rs. 40,000/- per month. If available, suitable on-campus accommodation may be provided as per IIT Jodhpur norms. Alternatively, each fellow shall be paid House Rent Allowance of Rs. 8,000 per month.
What other benefits do I receive? A PDF will be entitled to receive the following benefits: (a) Contingency Grant A contingency grant of Rs.1,00,000 per annum will be provided to the Post-Doctoral Fellow towards research equipment, consumables and contingency. The Fellow may use only upto 25% of the contingency grant for attending National or International Conferences/Workshops. (b) Medical benefits/Insurance Outpatient Medical benefits and limited Insurance will be provided for coverage.
What happens after submitting application? After receipt of soft and hard copies of your application, the Selection Process begins. The process adopted for recruitment of Faculty Members at IIT Jodhpur involves five (5) levels, namely: Level 1: Screening based on the need in certain areas within the listed disciplines Level 2: Scrutiny based on academic background and research preparation presented in the Application Level 3: Seminar in person, or via mutual presence software on Internet Level 4: Interview in person, or via mutual presence software on Internet
How much time does the selection process take? Applications will be screened for interview once every three months. Each cycle of selection should be completed in about three months.
I am not an Indian citizen. Can I still apply for a PDF Position at IIT Jodhpur? Yes. However, your Application will need to be cleared by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India; the Institute will pursue the matter.
I am a fresh Ph.D. holder. Can I apply for a PDF Position at IIT Jodhpur? Yes, ofcourse!
I am in the process of defending my thesis. Can I apply for a PDF Position at IIT Jodhpur? Please apply immediately after submitting the thesis.
What kinds of responsibilities are the PDFs at IIT Jodhpur entrusted with? Post-Doctoral Fellows are expected to pursue interdisciplinary research in one of the disciplines of the Institute with a Mentor Faculty Member who will essentially perform the role of a collaborator. Also the Post-Doctoral Fellow shall offer upto 7 hours per week for academic assistance, including in teaching, handling of tutorials and guiding laboratory work of students.
What are the conditions for leaving the PDF position? If the Post-Doctoral Fellow wishes to leave the program before the end of the tenure, he/she can do so with prior consent of the PAC and by giving one month’s notice. The Fellowship may be terminated by the Institute, if the performance/conduct of the Fellow is unsatisfactory, by giving one month’s notice to the Fellow.
B. Benefits Related FAQs Q1. Does the Institute provide accommodation immediately upon my arrival for joining? Yes. The Institute provides transit accommodation immediately on arrival. Q2. Is accommodation available after completing the joining formalities? IIT Jodhpur has on-campus residential accommodation for Faculty Members, Officers and Students. Presently, the residential accommodation facility is limited, and the construction work of more residences is underway. Q3. What kind of medical benefits are provided? Outpatient Medical benefits and limited Insurance will be provided for coverage. Q5. How much leave will I be entitled to? The Post-Doctoral Fellow is eligible for leave for upto 30 days in a year for each completed year of the fellowship. The leave can be availed on a prorata basis for the completed duration (on 6-month basis). Q6. What about employment opportunities for spouses? Jodhpur is a city of Lawyers and Chartered Accountants. Especially with the High Court of the state of Rajasthan located in the city, Jodhpur has ample professional opportunities for spouses with backgrounds in these subjects. Further, it has ~700 SMEs around Jodhpur, contributing to the regional development. Oil and gas giants (like Cairn Energy, Shell and Schlumberger) are strengthening their establishments around Jodhpur. All of the above offer opportunities for appointment of spouses of Faculty Members of IIT Jodhpur, based on his/her qualifications and relevant experience. In addition, the city hosts seven S&T Organisations, namely (1) All India Institute of Medical Sciences, (2) National Law University, (3) Sardar Patel University for Police, Security and Criminal Justice, (4) National Institute of Fashion Technology, (5) Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Rajasthan Ayurved University, (6) Footwear Design and Development Institute, and (7) Defense Laboratory, DRDO. Faculty Member, Scientist, Technical and Administrative positions are available from time to time.
B. Benefits Related FAQs
B. Benefits Related FAQs
Does the Institute provide accommodation immediately upon my arrival for joining? Yes. The Institute provides transit accommodation immediately on arrival.
Is accommodation available after completing the joining formalities? IIT Jodhpur has on-campus residential accommodation for Faculty Members, Officers and Students. Presently, the residential accommodation facility is limited, and the construction work of more residences is underway.
What kind of medical benefits are provided? Outpatient Medical benefits and limited Insurance will be provided for coverage.
How much leave will I be entitled to? The Post-Doctoral Fellow is eligible for leave for upto 30 days in a year for each completed year of the fellowship. The leave can be availed on a prorata basis for the completed duration (on 6-month basis).
What about employment opportunities for spouses? Jodhpur is a city of Lawyers and Chartered Accountants. Especially with the High Court of the state of Rajasthan located in the city, Jodhpur has ample professional opportunities for spouses with backgrounds in these subjects. Further, it has ~700 SMEs around Jodhpur, contributing to the regional development. Oil and gas giants (like Cairn Energy, Shell and Schlumberger) are strengthening their establishments around Jodhpur. All of the above offer opportunities for appointment of spouses of Faculty Members of IIT Jodhpur, based on his/her qualifications and relevant experience. In addition, the city hosts seven S&T Organisations, namely (1) All India Institute of Medical Sciences, (2) National Law University, (3) Sardar Patel University for Police, Security and Criminal Justice, (4) National Institute of Fashion Technology, (5) Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Rajasthan Ayurved University, (6) Footwear Design and Development Institute, and (7) Defense Laboratory, DRDO. Faculty Member, Scientist, Technical and Administrative positions are available from time to time.
C. Professional Development Related FAQs Q1. Does the Institute provide Grant for research? Yes. A contingency grant of Rs.1,00,000 per annum will be provided to the Post-Doctoral Fellow towards research equipment, consumables and contingency. The Fellow may use only upto 25% of the contingency grant for attending National or International Conferences/Workshops. Q2. What are the other S&T Organisations and Institutes in and around Jodhpur? Is there a scope for collaboration with them in academics and research? Jodhpur has a steadily growing academic neighbourhood with 6 new, prominent academic and R&D organizations, which are about 5 years old, namely: (1) All India Institute of Medical Sciences, (2) National Law University, (3) National Institute of Fashion Technology, (4) Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Rajasthan Ayurved University, (5) Sardar Patel University for Police, Security and Criminal Justice, and (6) Footwear Design and Development Institute. DRDO’s Defence Laboratory is one of the prominent older R&D organisations in town. IIT Jodhpur has academic collaborations with All India Institute of Medical Sciences, National Law University, and Sardar Patel University for Police, Security and Criminal Justice, and active research collaboration with the Defence Laboratory.
C. Professional Development Related FAQs
C. Professional Development Related FAQs
Does the Institute provide Grant for research? Yes. A contingency grant of Rs.1,00,000 per annum will be provided to the Post-Doctoral Fellow towards research equipment, consumables and contingency. The Fellow may use only upto 25% of the contingency grant for attending National or International Conferences/Workshops.
What are the other S&T Organisations and Institutes in and around Jodhpur? Is there a scope for collaboration with them in academics and research? Jodhpur has a steadily growing academic neighbourhood with 6 new, prominent academic and R&D organizations, which are about 5 years old, namely: (1) All India Institute of Medical Sciences, (2) National Law University, (3) National Institute of Fashion Technology, (4) Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Rajasthan Ayurved University, (5) Sardar Patel University for Police, Security and Criminal Justice, and (6) Footwear Design and Development Institute. DRDO’s Defence Laboratory is one of the prominent older R&D organisations in town. IIT Jodhpur has academic collaborations with All India Institute of Medical Sciences, National Law University, and Sardar Patel University for Police, Security and Criminal Justice, and active research collaboration with the Defence Laboratory.
Jodhpur has a steadily growing academic neighbourhood with 6 new, prominent academic and R&D organizations, which are about 5 years old, namely: (1) All India Institute of Medical Sciences, (2) National Law University, (3) National Institute of Fashion Technology, (4) Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Rajasthan Ayurved University, (5) Sardar Patel University for Police, Security and Criminal Justice, and (6) Footwear Design and Development Institute. DRDO’s Defence Laboratory is one of the prominent older R&D organisations in town.
IIT Jodhpur has academic collaborations with All India Institute of Medical Sciences, National Law University, and Sardar Patel University for Police, Security and Criminal Justice, and active research collaboration with the Defence Laboratory.
D. IIT Jodhpur & Surroundings Q1. Where is IIT Jodhpur exactly located? IIT Jodhpur is situated in its sprawling 852 acres campus at NH 65, Nagaur Road, Karwad, Jodhpur 342037. Q2. How to reach IIT Jodhpur? For details, please see “ How to reach IIT Jodhpur ” in the footer of the Institute's website. Q3. Is Jodhpur well connected for international and domestic travel? Jodhpur is connected by air to Delhi and Mumbai (Air India and Jet Airways operate one daily flight to each of these cities), well connected by train to all major cities in the Country, and by mega highways to major neighboring cities, e.g., Jaipur, Jaisalmer, Udaipur and Ahmedabad. Q4. How is the city of Jodhpur like? Jodhpur is a city of historical importance to tourists and a city of strategic importance to the nation, centrally situated in Marwar – the western region of the state of Rajasthan. It is a small, calm, friendly and almost no-pollution city with just about 12.7 lakh population; by the way, there is “No Traffic Jam” at any time of the day in any part of the city!! You must live in Jodhpur to hear all the anecdotal stories of the Royal Legends of the historic times, or to know why the city earned its names The Sun City or The Blue City . Q5. Does the city of Jodhpur have good schools and day-care facilities for children? The Institute is poised to start a Kendriya Vidyalaya on its Campus. It has become operational on 6 October 2017 from the Project Office Building in Pocket B. The school will move to its final spot, as soon as the School Building is completed in Pocket C (as part of Phase 2 Development of the Permanent Campus). Besides, the city of Jodhpur has a number of good schools, like, Delhi Public School, Vidhyashram International School, Rajmata Krishna Kumari Girls Public School, Mayoor Chopasni School, St. Patrick’s Vidya Bhawan, St. Anne’s School, St. Paul’s School, Central Academy, Euro School, and Happy Hours, to name a few. The Institute facilitates liaison with the administration of these schools for admission. Development of a day-care center for the children of employees is underway. Q6. What kind of health care and medical facilities are available in Jodhpur? The Institute has a well equipped, fully functional Primary Health Center in the Residential Area, where most Faculty Members live. For advanced treatment, referrals are given to some of the well-equipped hospitals in the city. Jodhpur is fortunate to have the all new state-of-the-art All India Institute of Medical Sciences , and some specialized hospitals. The Institute has active agreements with these prominent hospitals for priority treatment to its employees and students. These include: All India Institute of Medical Sciences , S. N. Medical College and Associated Hospitals , Goyal Hospital and Research Center , Medi Pulse Hospital , and Vasan Eye Care Hospital . Q7. How is Jodhpur city placed in terms of shopping and entertainment? The city is dotted with shopping destinations for everyday needs, like the Big Bazar , Reliance Fresh , and Fresh n Green departmental stores, as well as outlets of branded goods for special needs. For those looking for authentic ethnic goods, the National Handloom Corporation is a must–stop shop. Jodhpur has its share of major multiplexes, like Glitz Cinemas , Bioscope and Satyam Cineplex , to catch up with your favourite celluloid stars. Marwadi cuisine is popular for its spicy and arid region ingredients. This traditional palette can be relished in its village kitchens at eateries called “ dhāni s” in and around the city. Ask for Gypsy , if you don’t have much time to wait! Q8. What are the nearby leisure and tourist destinations that one can explore? Jodhpur is an active tourist city – friendly and quiet. The key tourist attractions in Jodhpur are: Mehrangarh Fort, Jaswant Thada, Umaid Bhawan Palace, and Balsamand and Kaylana lakes. Also, the city is well connected to other major destinations, like Jaisalmer Palace and its neighbouring sand dunes, Mount Abu, Neemrana Fort, Ranthambore National Park, Udaipur Palace and surrounding lakes, Ajmer Dargah Sharif, Kumbhalgarh Fort, and Jaipur. Climate of Jodhpur, though hot for most time of the year, touring to the nearby destinations is a weekend and semester-end getaway activity of the campus life @ IIT Jodhpur.
D. IIT Jodhpur & Surroundings
D. IIT Jodhpur & Surroundings
Where is IIT Jodhpur exactly located? IIT Jodhpur is situated in its sprawling 852 acres campus at NH 65, Nagaur Road, Karwad, Jodhpur 342037.
How to reach IIT Jodhpur? For details, please see “ How to reach IIT Jodhpur ” in the footer of the Institute's website.
Is Jodhpur well connected for international and domestic travel? Jodhpur is connected by air to Delhi and Mumbai (Air India and Jet Airways operate one daily flight to each of these cities), well connected by train to all major cities in the Country, and by mega highways to major neighboring cities, e.g., Jaipur, Jaisalmer, Udaipur and Ahmedabad.
How is the city of Jodhpur like? Jodhpur is a city of historical importance to tourists and a city of strategic importance to the nation, centrally situated in Marwar – the western region of the state of Rajasthan. It is a small, calm, friendly and almost no-pollution city with just about 12.7 lakh population; by the way, there is “No Traffic Jam” at any time of the day in any part of the city!! You must live in Jodhpur to hear all the anecdotal stories of the Royal Legends of the historic times, or to know why the city earned its names The Sun City or The Blue City .
Does the city of Jodhpur have good schools and day-care facilities for children? The Institute is poised to start a Kendriya Vidyalaya on its Campus. It has become operational on 6 October 2017 from the Project Office Building in Pocket B. The school will move to its final spot, as soon as the School Building is completed in Pocket C (as part of Phase 2 Development of the Permanent Campus). Besides, the city of Jodhpur has a number of good schools, like, Delhi Public School, Vidhyashram International School, Rajmata Krishna Kumari Girls Public School, Mayoor Chopasni School, St. Patrick’s Vidya Bhawan, St. Anne’s School, St. Paul’s School, Central Academy, Euro School, and Happy Hours, to name a few. The Institute facilitates liaison with the administration of these schools for admission. Development of a day-care center for the children of employees is underway.
What kind of health care and medical facilities are available in Jodhpur? The Institute has a well equipped, fully functional Primary Health Center in the Residential Area, where most Faculty Members live. For advanced treatment, referrals are given to some of the well-equipped hospitals in the city. Jodhpur is fortunate to have the all new state-of-the-art All India Institute of Medical Sciences , and some specialized hospitals. The Institute has active agreements with these prominent hospitals for priority treatment to its employees and students. These include: All India Institute of Medical Sciences , S. N. Medical College and Associated Hospitals , Goyal Hospital and Research Center , Medi Pulse Hospital , and Vasan Eye Care Hospital .
How is Jodhpur city placed in terms of shopping and entertainment? The city is dotted with shopping destinations for everyday needs, like the Big Bazar , Reliance Fresh , and Fresh n Green departmental stores, as well as outlets of branded goods for special needs. For those looking for authentic ethnic goods, the National Handloom Corporation is a must–stop shop. Jodhpur has its share of major multiplexes, like Glitz Cinemas , Bioscope and Satyam Cineplex , to catch up with your favourite celluloid stars. Marwadi cuisine is popular for its spicy and arid region ingredients. This traditional palette can be relished in its village kitchens at eateries called “ dhāni s” in and around the city. Ask for Gypsy , if you don’t have much time to wait!
What are the nearby leisure and tourist destinations that one can explore? Jodhpur is an active tourist city – friendly and quiet. The key tourist attractions in Jodhpur are: Mehrangarh Fort, Jaswant Thada, Umaid Bhawan Palace, and Balsamand and Kaylana lakes. Also, the city is well connected to other major destinations, like Jaisalmer Palace and its neighbouring sand dunes, Mount Abu, Neemrana Fort, Ranthambore National Park, Udaipur Palace and surrounding lakes, Ajmer Dargah Sharif, Kumbhalgarh Fort, and Jaipur. Climate of Jodhpur, though hot for most time of the year, touring to the nearby destinations is a weekend and semester-end getaway activity of the campus life @ IIT Jodhpur.
E. Life @ IIT Jodhpur Q1. How is the Campus Life at IIT Jodhpur? IIT Jodhpur is located on the outskirts of Jodhpur city at NH 65, Nagaur Raod, Karwad, Jodhpur 342037, in its sprawling 852 acres campus. While many Faculty Members, Officers, and Students reside on this campus, some Faculty and Staff Members opt to stay in the city in private accommodation. Activities like cultural programs, celebration of national festivals, workshops of general nature bring together the Faculty and Staff members along with their families and students. The campus also houses “The Jodhpur Club”, which was started on 26 January 2015 with a purpose of building cultural relations with the Academic and R&D Organizations in the Sun City. It serves as a backdrop for organizing various activities that pave way for cultural interaction among not only the employees of different organizations but also their families. The employees of IIT Jodhpur and their family members use this platform to come together to fulfil their other-than professional interests (like art and music). Q2. What are the facilities available in the Academic Area of IIT Jodhpur? The campus of IIT Jodhpur is divided by NH 65 into Pocket A and Pocket B. The Academic Area amd Residential Areas of the Institute are located in Pocket A. The Academic Area consists of the Main Building, which houses all the administrative offices of the Institute, The Learning Hub, i.e., the Lirbary of the Institute, the Lecture Hall Building, Laboratories, and the Department Buildings. The First Building of IIT Jodhpur, which is also known as the Project Building is located in Pocket B. It houses some Offices of the Institute and Kendriya Vidyalaya, IIT Jodhpur. Q3. What are the laboratory and research facilities? The Institutes’ Laboratories aim to develop innovative solutions to the technological challenges of India. To accomplish its academic and research goals, IIT Jodhpur endeavors to enhance its academic and research efforts through creative collaborations with some prominent institutes/universities in India and abroad. IIT Jodhpur has established state-of-the-art teaching and research laboratories. These advanced laboratories have machinery and devices of international standard, which are actively used in research. Q4. What about Library? The Learning Hub, i.e., the Library is an active partner in teaching, learning and research activities of the Institute. It has a collection of about 12,000 volumes of books (includes textbooks, research and reference books, and monographs). In addition, the Library provides access to a range of electronic resources, such as American Society for Mechanical Engineers , Institute for Electrical & Electronics Engineers , and Association for Computing Machinery . Also, it subscribes to popular scientific, research and archival databases, like JSTOR. The Library operates in a computerized environment with Automated Member and Circulation Services. Currently, memberships, circulation, reference & information service, inter library loans & document lending services, current awareness service, and digital library service, are some of the important services offered. Visit the Library Website for more information. Q5. What facilities are available in IIT Jodhpur? The Institute has arranged formally (through public tender process) for vendors to provide for the following services: (1) ATM & Bank: The residential area has a branch of State Bank of India (SBI) as well as an ATM of SBI enabling the residents to make transactions with ease. (3) Gymnasium: A modest Gymnasium facility is operational in each Student Hostel. (4) Dining Facility: The Institute has arranged for a vendor, who provides for healthy and hygienic food to Students in the Dining Hall located near the Hostels. Both vegetarian and non-vegetarian options are available, made in two separate kitchens. (5) Food Court & Restaurant: There is a Food Court & Restaurant on 3rd Floor, Dining Hall Building that provides hygienic food, fresh juices and various other snacks. (6) Laundry Service: A state-of-the-art Laundry Service is operational from the Himalaya West Berm 5 (Barrels 4 and 5). For the Students, the service is at a fixed cost for unlimited clothes for the 9 months of the two semesters, and at cost for each dress item for the rest of the vacation months. And, for the other residents, the charges are per dress item. (7) Shopping Center: A modest Shopping Center is operational on the Permanent Campus. Currently, it has a Grocery Shop, Stationery Store, Vegetable & Fruits Shop, Milk Parlour (Amul), Ladies Beauty Parlour, and Gents Salon. The Shopping Center operates from 08:00–18:00 in The Jaisalmer Club. (8) Transport Services: The Institute has a bus service running between the Institute and various places in the City of Jodhpur at regular intervals. (9) Primary Health Care: An ISO 9001:2005 Certified Primary Health Center is fully operational on the Permanent Campus, and this service is provided by M/s Goyal Hospital and Research Center Private Limited, Jodhpur. It has both Out-Patient and In-Patient services with a panel of Medical Officers and Para Medical Staff available on duty round the clock. The basic laboratory tests and physiotherapy facilities are provided here. Also, an instrumented ambulance is on waiting round the clock for special service needed in the Secondary and Tertiary Hospitals in the city of Jodhpur. Besides, weekly visits of specialist doctors are arranged in the Primary Health Center. Currently, the facility runs in 3111 and 3114, Street 3, Park Avenue. Besides the Health Center, the Institute has empanelled six hospitals in the city of Jodhpur, namely: (1) ASG Eye Hospital, Jodhpur (2) Goyal Hospital & Research Centre, Jodhpur (3) Kamla Nagar Hospital, Jodhpur (4) Medipulse Hospital, Jodhpur (5) Vasan Eye Care Hospital, Jodhpur Two of these hospitals have specializations in ophthalmology, one in orthopedic, and the remaining three hospitals are the best known general purpose hospitals in the city. For specialized medical attention, doctors at our Health Center refer patients to one of these hospitals. In addition to these six hospitals, the city has a Medical College and three hospitals run by Government of Rajasthan. Also, the city has an All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Jodhpur. Besides, there is Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Ayurved University, which runs academic programs and a hospital, in our neighbourhood. Also, the Institute has constituted a Medical Board consisting of Senior Doctors from the Medical College and the AIIMS; advice is taken for enhancement of medical services of the Health Centers, and in critical medical cases further, IIT Jodhpur has empaneled two hospitals in Jaipur. These two hospitals are accredited by National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare, and patients can be referred to these hospitals as per the need of the treatment. (10) School: The Institute is poised to start a Kendriya Vidyalaya on its Campus. It has become operational on 6 October 2017 from the Project Office Building in Pocket B. The school will move to its final spot, as soon as the School Building is completed in Pocket C (as part of Phase 2 Development of the Permanent Campus).
E. Life @ IIT Jodhpur
E. Life @ IIT Jodhpur
How is the Campus Life at IIT Jodhpur? IIT Jodhpur is located on the outskirts of Jodhpur city at NH 65, Nagaur Raod, Karwad, Jodhpur 342037, in its sprawling 852 acres campus. While many Faculty Members, Officers, and Students reside on this campus, some Faculty and Staff Members opt to stay in the city in private accommodation.
Activities like cultural programs, celebration of national festivals, workshops of general nature bring together the Faculty and Staff members along with their families and students. The campus also houses “The Jodhpur Club”, which was started on 26 January 2015 with a purpose of building cultural relations with the Academic and R&D Organizations in the Sun City. It serves as a backdrop for organizing various activities that pave way for cultural interaction among not only the employees of different organizations but also their families. The employees of IIT Jodhpur and their family members use this platform to come together to fulfil their other-than professional interests (like art and music).
Activities like cultural programs, celebration of national festivals, workshops of general nature bring together the Faculty and Staff members along with their families and students. The campus also houses “The Jodhpur Club”, which was started on 26 January 2015 with a purpose of building cultural relations with the Academic and R&D Organizations in the Sun City. It serves as a backdrop for organizing various activities that pave way for cultural interaction among not only the employees of different organizations but also their families. The employees of IIT Jodhpur and their family members use this platform to come together to fulfil their other-than professional interests (like art and music).
What are the facilities available in the Academic Area of IIT Jodhpur?
The campus of IIT Jodhpur is divided by NH 65 into Pocket A and Pocket B. The Academic Area amd Residential Areas of the Institute are located in Pocket A. The Academic Area consists of the Main Building, which houses all the administrative offices of the Institute, The Learning Hub, i.e., the Lirbary of the Institute, the Lecture Hall Building, Laboratories, and the Department Buildings.
The First Building of IIT Jodhpur, which is also known as the Project Building is located in Pocket B. It houses some Offices of the Institute and Kendriya Vidyalaya, IIT Jodhpur.
What are the laboratory and research facilities? The Institutes’ Laboratories aim to develop innovative solutions to the technological challenges of India. To accomplish its academic and research goals, IIT Jodhpur endeavors to enhance its academic and research efforts through creative collaborations with some prominent institutes/universities in India and abroad. IIT Jodhpur has established state-of-the-art teaching and research laboratories. These advanced laboratories have machinery and devices of international standard, which are actively used in research.
The Learning Hub, i.e., the Library is an active partner in teaching, learning and research activities of the Institute. It has a collection of about 12,000 volumes of books (includes textbooks, research and reference books, and monographs). In addition, the Library provides access to a range of electronic resources, such as American Society for Mechanical Engineers , Institute for Electrical & Electronics Engineers , and Association for Computing Machinery . Also, it subscribes to popular scientific, research and archival databases, like JSTOR. The Library operates in a computerized environment with Automated Member and Circulation Services. Currently, memberships, circulation, reference & information service, inter library loans & document lending services, current awareness service, and digital library service, are some of the important services offered. Visit the Library Website for more information.
What facilities are available in IIT Jodhpur?
The Institute has arranged formally (through public tender process) for vendors to provide for the following services:
ATM & Bank: The residential area has a branch of State Bank of India (SBI) as well as an ATM of SBI enabling the residents to make transactions with ease.
Gymnasium: A modest Gymnasium facility is operational in each Student Hostel.
Dining Facility: The Institute has arranged for a vendor, who provides for healthy and hygienic food to Students in the Dining Hall located near the Hostels. Both vegetarian and non-vegetarian options are available, made in two separate kitchens.
Food Court & Restaurant: There is a Food Court & Restaurant on 3rd Floor, Dining Hall Building that provides hygienic food, fresh juices and various other snacks.
Laundry Service: A state-of-the-art Laundry Service is operational from the Himalaya West Berm 5 (Barrels 4 and 5). For the Students, the service is at a fixed cost for unlimited clothes for the 9 months of the two semesters, and at cost for each dress item for the rest of the vacation months. And, for the other residents, the charges are per dress item.
Shopping Center: A modest Shopping Center is operational on the Permanent Campus. Currently, it has a Grocery Shop, Stationery Store, Vegetable & Fruits Shop, Milk Parlour (Amul), Ladies Beauty Parlour, and Gents Salon. The Shopping Center operates from 08:00–18:00 in The Jaisalmer Club.
Transport Services: The Institute has a bus service running between the Institute and various places in the City of Jodhpur at regular intervals.
Primary Health Care: An ISO 9001:2005 Certified Primary Health Center is fully operational on the Permanent Campus, and this service is provided by M/s Goyal Hospital and Research Center Private Limited, Jodhpur. It has both Out-Patient and In-Patient services with a panel of Medical Officers and Para Medical Staff available on duty round the clock. The basic laboratory tests and physiotherapy facilities are provided here. Also, an instrumented ambulance is on waiting round the clock for special service needed in the Secondary and Tertiary Hospitals in the city of Jodhpur. Besides, weekly visits of specialist doctors are arranged in the Primary Health Center. Currently, the facility runs in 3111 and 3114, Street 3, Park Avenue. Besides the Health Center, the Institute has empanelled six hospitals in the city of Jodhpur, namely: (1) ASG Eye Hospital, Jodhpur (2) Goyal Hospital & Research Centre, Jodhpur (3) Kamla Nagar Hospital, Jodhpur (4) Medipulse Hospital, Jodhpur (5) Vasan Eye Care Hospital, Jodhpur Two of these hospitals have specializations in ophthalmology, one in orthopedic, and the remaining three hospitals are the best known general purpose hospitals in the city. For specialized medical attention, doctors at our Health Center refer patients to one of these hospitals. In addition to these six hospitals, the city has a Medical College and three hospitals run by Government of Rajasthan. Also, the city has an All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Jodhpur. Besides, there is Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Ayurved University, which runs academic programs and a hospital, in our neighbourhood. Also, the Institute has constituted a Medical Board consisting of Senior Doctors from the Medical College and the AIIMS; advice is taken for enhancement of medical services of the Health Centers, and in critical medical cases further, IIT Jodhpur has empaneled two hospitals in Jaipur. These two hospitals are accredited by National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare, and patients can be referred to these hospitals as per the need of the treatment.
School: The Institute is poised to start a Kendriya Vidyalaya on its Campus. It has become operational on 6 October 2017 from the Project Office Building in Pocket B. The school will move to its final spot, as soon as the School Building is completed in Pocket C (as part of Phase 2 Development of the Permanent Campus).
Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee
Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee
Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee
Institute Repository
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 28 Nov 2025 - 10:43 AM
Last Updated : 28 Nov 2025 - 10:43 AM
Last Updated : 28 Nov 2025 - 10:43 AM
###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!