SOURCE_PDF: 188b80fb814f_2024-08-02-66ac69dd6b48f-1722575325.pdf

x.;liffiIF{ffisBil
Indian Institute of Technology ]odhpur
No. IITJI DIR 
/ 2024-25 / o I
Date:16 July 2024
Office Order
Subiect Appointment of Student Ombudsperson(s) at IIT jodhpur
The Board of Governors in its 37tr. Meeting held on 29 J we 2024has approved the appointment
of Student Ombudsperson(s) at IiT Jodhpur. In order to have an external and independent system of
addressing grievances from sfudents one external Ombudsperson is also hereby appointed. The
external O-mludsperson will visit the Institute to interact and address the student(s) grievances.
The following two Ombudspersons are appointed with immediate effect:
. 
Prof. Jaywant H. Arakeri
Department of Mechanical Engineering
eMail: jaywant@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (0291)2801530
. 
Shri Vikas Kumar IPS
IG, Jodhpur Range
eMail : v ikas244@ gmail. com
Details regarding the background, duration of appointment and functions of Student
Ombudsperson are attached as Annexure I.
gfinffifl<ffi*
Director
Copy to:
1. Deputy Director - for information
2. All Deans/ AD s / PICs 
/ Heads
3. Registrar
4. All Faculty Members
5. All Staff Members
6, All Students
7, AllOffices
g. webmaster: for uploading in the INTRANET of the Institute website

Annexure I
Details of Student Ombudsperson(s)
Background Note:
The Institute is committed to maintain a safe campus enviroumentwhile ensuring that the Well- being
of sfudents is protectecl, fostering and nurturing an inclusive atmosphere on the campus and to
ensure that the-students have a supportive environment for their academic and personal growth as
the students are the primary stakeholders of the Institute.
It is pertinent to mention that IIT Jodhpur has a robust system for Mental and overall Wellbeing of
the Students such as dedicated Students Wellbeing Committee, Student Counsellors and other
associated measures, In order to further strengthen the existing Wellbeing mechanism for students,
the proposal to appoint Stuclent Ombudsperson(s) was discussed in the Deans Group Meeting held
o" O-g.O6.zOZ4. The proposal endorsed by the Deans was placed before the Board of Governors in its
!,/trr \{sgfing held or"r Zj,n J:ULne 20'A and ihe BoG appreciated and approved the same.
Duration of appointment of Ombudsperson(s):
The term of Ombudsperson would be one year from the date of appointment and can be renewed,
depending on performance.
Broad functions (but not limited to) of Student Ombudsperson(s):
1. Any aggrieved student on any issue faced by him/her related to the Institute affairs / matters may
file a complaint to the Institute Ombudsman(s), either through an email or typed / handwritten
complaint detailing the issues faced'
2. The Complainant will be non-Ernonymous to the Ombudsman(s). Complete anonymity of the
Complainant will be maintained throughout.
3. On receipt of the complain! the Ombudsperson maintaining strict anonymity 9f the complainant,
forwards the same toihe concerned Department / Discipline / Office for detailed comments.'fhe
Ombudsperson can investigate the matter on his own and interact with all sections of Campus
community including faculty member and staff to find the facts of the matter.
4. On receipt of the Ombudsperson's information, the concerned Department / Discipline provides
,r""""rrry details after conducting suitable scrutiny without any impartiality.
5. After consultation with the Complainant, the Ombudsperson shall evaluate the information and
presents the case before the institute's Director, for a final decision.
6. The decision taken by the Director of the Institute will be final and binding on all the parties,
7. To ensure that the students have a supportive environment for their academic and personal growth
within the framework of the Institute.
8. To work closely with the students, their Faculty Supervisors and extend support to them while
ensuring overall wellbeing.
9. To liaise with the Institute Administration / Committees constituted by the Institute to ensure that
grievances are resolved in a time-bound manner.