SOURCE_PDF: 18d5502aa34e_301d1b34-43db-4dd1-bc94-2d3c6a58c221.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
SENATE
Minutes of
33 rd Meeting
01 March 2023 (Wednesday)
3:00 pm onwards
Senate Room, lIT Jodhpur

This page is left blank, intentionally

1. Prof. Santanu Chaudhury
Director, IIT Jodhpur Chairman
2. Prof. S.R. Vadera
Deputy Director, IIT Jodhpur Member
3. Dr. Sanj eev Misra
Vice-Chancellor,
Ata l Bihari Vajpayee Medical University Lucknow &
Former Director, AIIMS Jodhpur Member
4. Prof. H.P. Khincha, Chairman
Karn ataka Sta te Innovation Council, Bangalore Member
5 Prof. Ajay Agarwal, Deptt. of EE Member
6. Prof. Surajit Ghosh, Deptt. of BB Member
7. Prof. Somitra K. Sanadhya, AIDE Member
8. Prof. Sangeeta Sahney, SME Member
9. Prof. Mayank Vatsa, Deptt. of CSE Member
10. Prof. Richa Singh, Deptt. of CSE Member
11. Prof. Neeraj Jain, AIDE Member
12. Prof. Suraj it Ghosh, Dean (Internationa l Relations, Alumni
Relat ions and Corporate Relations ) Member
13. Prof. Som itra K. Sanad hya, Dean (Digita l Transformation) Member
14. Prof. Mayank vatsa, Dean(R&D) Memb er
15 . Head, Department of Chemical Engineering Member
16. Head, Department of Chemistry Member
17. Head, Department of Electrical Engineeri ng Mem ber

18. Head, Department of Mathematics Member
19. Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering Member
20. Head, Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering Member
21. Head, Department of Physics Member
22. Head, Department of Civil & Infrastructure Engineering Member
23. Head, School of Management & Entrepreneurship (SME) Member
24. Head, School of Liberal Arts (SoLA) Mem ber
25. Head, Centre for Technology Foresight & Policy Member
26 . Dr. S.c. Bose, Head & Chairperson, IRC_IDRP, Inter-
Disciplinary Research Platform (IDRP) Member
27. Dr. Deepak Arora, AD (R&D) Member
28. Dr. Satyajit Sahu , Associate Professor, Department of
Physics Member
29. Dr. Indranil Banerjee, AD (Hostel Affairs) Member
30. Dr. Atul Kumar, AD (Academics- PG Programs) Member
31. Dr. Gaurav Hartt, AD (Academics- UG Programs) Member
32. Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar, AD (IRQ) Member
33 . Dr. Deepak M. Fulwani, AD (PRG) Member
34. Dr. Anand K. Plappally, Associate Professor, Department
Department of Mechanical Engineering Member
35. Dr. Abir Bhattacharyya, Assistant Professor, Department of
Metallurgical & Materials Engineering Member
36. Dr. Sankalp Pratap, Associate Professor, School of
Management & Entrepreneurship Member

Dr. Dipanjan Roy, Associate Professor, School of Artificial
Intelligence & Data Science Member
Dr. Ank ita Sharma, AD (Student Affairs) and Associate
Professor, School of Liberal Arts Member
Prof. C. Venketesan
-
Professor-in-charge (Faculty)
Dr. Kaushal Desai
Faculty-in-charge (Executive Education)
Prof. Amitava Mitra, Professor-in-charge
(Infrastructure Engineering )
Dr. Somnath Ghosh, Faculty-in-charge
(Curriculum Implementation)
Genera l Secretary, ACAC Special Invitee
Special Invitee
Special Invitee
Special Invitee
Specia l Invitee
Dr. Hari am Yadav, Registrar Secretary
1. Prof. Souvik Bhattacharyya, VC, BITS Pilani Member
2. Prof. Purnima Singh, Deptt. of Humanities & Social
Sciences, IIT Delhi Member
3. Dr. Jitendra Balakrishnan, CTO-Products, Sterlite
Technologies Ltd. Member
S.No. Items
33.1 Welcome by the Chairman, Senate
The following are the recommendations of the Senate:

33.1.1 Confirmation of Minutes of the 32nd Meeting of the Senate held on
20th December, 2022
33.1.2 Report on Action Taken on decisions of the 32nd Meeting of the
Senate held on 20th December, 2022
Item Discussion Item Action Taken
32.2.1 Proposal of a new Master Programme, M.DeS. in XR
/ Immersive Media hosted by School of Liberal Arts
(SoLA), to be started from Semester-I, AY 2023-24 In the process of
Implementation
32.2.4 Proposals for New Courses from various Dept./School/Centre
SN Department/
IDRP/School New Courses A ction Taken
2 Department of
Civil and
Infrastructure
Engineering 1. Rock Mechanics and U
Rock Engineering
Laboratory nder Process

32.2.5 Conversion of a 4 Cred it Course ( Fundamentals of
Machine Learning ) to 1 Credit as Program Core an d
3 Credit as Program or Open Elect ive. Under Process
33.2 Discussion Items
33.2.1 Proposal of a new MBA program in FinTech and Cyber Security from
t he School of Management & Entrepreneurship (SME)
The Head, School of Management & Entrepreneursh ip presented t he agenda
before t he Senate. The Senate after detailed discussion on t he proposa
recommended t he proposal with minor modifications as indicated below :
1. The school wil l admit 40 students to the program. The school was
advised to follow appropriate strategy to ensure th at seats are
completely filled;
2. An early exit policy should be formulated in the form of a Diploma;
3. The maximum duration of the program will be th e same as that of an
M.Tech. Program;
4. Admission criterion should clearly mention t he skil l set required for the
applicants;
5. In addition to the standard requirements, the admission should be based
on an interview process where Faculty Mem ber(s) from relevan
eng ineering departments or allied areas should also be involved; l
t
4 School of
Management &
Entrep reneurship 1. Market Structu res and
Strategy
2. Personal Financia l
Planning
3. Strateglzing for Indian
Bazaars
4 . Revenue & Pricing
Management
5. Supply Chain Modeling
and Behavioral Operations
6. Statistics of
Management
7. Industrial Relations &
Labour Law
5 School of Liberal
Arts ; 1. Sociology of Education
2. Sentence Structure
3. Time and Literary
Narratives
4. Language and Linguistics
5. Applied Time Series
Modelling in Economics and
Finance

3.2.2 Proposal of B.Tech. and M.Tech. Specializations from the Department
of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering

33.2.3 Proposal for new M.S. by Research Programs
33.2.4 Proposal of new B.S. Specializations for Departments of Physics and
Chemistry

33.2.5 Proposals for New Courses from the Department of MechaniCal
Engineering and School of Management & Entrepreneurship
33.2.6 Proposal for Enrolment of International Students in the Bachelor of
Technology Program
SN Particulars Department
/
IDRP/Schoo
I Annexu-re Senate Recommendations
1. Proposal of a
new elective
courses Mechanical
Engineering 1.Measureme
nts using
Vision for
Automation The Head, Mechanical
Engineering presented the
proposed Course.
The Senate after discussion in-
principle approved the proposal
and authorized the Chairman,
Senate to approve the Course
with respect to the state of the
art, and prerequisites.
2 Proposal for
Advanced
Computat ional
Lab as a
compulsory
course for
M.Tech.
Thermofluids
Engineering Mechanical
Engineering Advanced
Computationa
I Lab as a
compulsory
course for
M.Tech.
Thermofluids
Engineering The Head, Mechanical
Engineering presented the
proposed course. The Senate
after discussion approved the
Advanced Computational Lab as a
compulsory course for M.Tech.
Thermofl uids Engineering.
3 Proposal of a
new course School of
Management
&
Entrepreneurs
hip 1.Multi-
Sensory
Experience The Head, School of Management
& Entrepreneurship presented the
proposed courses.
The Senate after discussion
recom mended revision of the
course with a Lab component.
The Senate also authorized the
Chairman, Senate to app rove
the course after including the list
of lab experiments and revising
the Prerequisites.

33.2.7 Proposal to schedule the Make-up Exams for the first year UG
students in the fourth week of July, 2023
33.2.8 Proposal fo r the creation of a Centre of Excellence on Intellectual
Property ( I P), School of Management and Entrepreneurship (SME),
lIT Jodhpur
33.3 Procedural Items
33.3.1 Academic Calendar for A.Y. 2023-24 Sem I
33.4 Reporting, Adopting and Noting Items
33.4.1 Academic Recommendations of 27th ECS Meeting held on 20th
February, 2023

33.5 Ratification Items
33.5.1 Approvals accorded by the Chairman, Senate
33.6 Any other Item with the prior permission of the Chairman
The meeting concluded with thanks to the Chairman and the Members.
Registrar & Secretary, Senate
(Prof. Sa"'tanu ChaUJjhury)
Director & Chairman, Senate

Annexure
Centre of Excellence on Intellectual Property
School of Management and Entrepreneurship, lIT Jodhpur
Introduction
liT Jodhpur has evolved into a multidisciplinary institution with departments spanning sciences. mathematics.
technologies, liberal arts, and management & entrepreneurship.
Excellence in inclusive education with the
urge to inculcate the spirit of Innovations, Entrepreneurship, and Socio-economic Development has been the
focus at liT Jodhpur. Recognizing the relevance of respons ible use of Intellectual Property Rights (lPR) as
integral to its innovation value chain, liT Jodhpur has formulated and is actively implementing its institutional
IPR policy.
The structured discovery and innovation activities over the last few years have brought to light the need for a
Centre of Excellence (CoE) on Intellectual Property in liT Jodhpur. The faculty and staff members of the
centre are expected to be engaged in :
(A) Teaching and research on different aspects of intellectual property
(B) Comprehensively planning, strategize and manage IPs of liT Jodhpur
(C) Participate in Outreach activities for IP awareness and lP facilitation
The proposed Centre of Excellence on IP will be part of the School of Management & Entrepreneurship
(SME).
The CoE will function as a focal point for the exploration of avenues for inter-institutional synergisnc
collaborations in human resource and capacity building programmes to enhance the value of the combined
creative potential and output of these institutions.
Further, the CoE would also serve as a cont inual learning
group not only to identify the current and emerging unmet national and regional needs to be addressed but
also to research on the impact of evolving technologies and socio-economic frameworks to plan and flag off
what lies ahead. The core focus would lie on issues about IP management, viz., patent search, patent
technologies, patent analysis, patent landscaping, and commercialization. The CoE would indulge in academic
and applied research in the area of IPR.
Vision of CoE
•
To be the coveted destination for education and research on IP and related areas;
•
To be the leading centre for IP generation, IP Portfolio construction and IP exploitation;
•
To be the prime mover for creating IP strategy for start-ups and innovators.
Mission of CoE:
I.
Offer foundational and advanced courses on different aspects of IP and IP use
2.
Creating relevant Doctoral and Post-Doctoral programs
3.
Design and offer short term certificate/diploma/training programs
4.
Set up an enabling ecosystem for IP identification and filing at liT Jodhpur
5.
Explore opportunities for IP exploitation
6.
Strateg izing IP hedging, IP portfolio generation, etc. for managing innovations originating from the
institute and its associate section-S companies
7.
Extending IP services to TISC and start-up's incubated at TISC
8.
Consultancy and facilitation services for industry and other institutes/agencies
9.
Promotion ofa culture of lP generation and IP commercialization
The CoE would run an IP facilitation Centre which may include human resources from other
organisations, supported by JCKIF to provide help and assistance to regional industries, art and craft on
IP issues, and Geographical Indications.

Human resources for the Centre:
I.
Fac ulty:
Young
faculty
associate,
Assistant
professors,
Associate
professors,
Professors,
Professor-of-Practice, Adjunct Professor, Adjunct Professor of Practice, Affiliate Faculty from IITJ.
2,
Research Staff
a.
Scientific ofticers
b.
Research associates/assistants
c.
Patent agents