SOURCE_PDF: 1ae4cacc82ba_aab4bbe6-3b40-444b-ac65-22ba3abbd39e.pdf

Confidential
Hkkjrh; çkS|ksfxdh laLFkku tks/kiqj
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
vfHk'kkld eaMy
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
MINUTES OF 37th MEETING
29th June 2024 (Saturday)
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur

This page is left blank, intentionally

1. Sh. A.S. Kiran Kumar, Former Chairman, ISRO Chairman
2. Prof. Avinash Kumar Agarwal
Director, IIT Jodhpur Member (Ex-officio)
3. Smt. Saumya Gupta, IAS
Joint Secretary (Technical Education)
Ministry of Education, Govt. of India Member
(Issued Comments vide Letter No. 12-
9/2018-TS-I Department of Higher
Education, Ministry of Education, Govt.
of India dated 28th June 2024)
4. Prof. Akhil Ranjan Garg
Professor, MBM University, Jodhpur Member
5. Prof. Richa Singh, Deptt. of CS&E, IITJ Member
6. Prof. Neeraj Jain
Deptt. of Bioscience & Bioengg., IITJ Member
7. Prof. Sampat Raj Vadera
Deputy Director, IIT Jodhpur Special Invitee
8. Dr. Hari Om Yadav, Registrar Secretary
S.No. Items
37.1 WELCOME BY THE CHAIRMAN, BOARD OF GOVERNORS (BoG)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Board of Governors
Minutes of 37th Meeting
29th June 2024 (Saturday), 09:00 A.M.
Board Room , IIT Jodhpur
The following Members were present in the 37th Meeting of the Board of Governors:
Prof. N.S. Shekhawat, Former Professor, JNVU, Member, BoG could not attend the Meeting due to 
personal reasons. Sh. Anil Bhavarlal Jain and Secretary, Govt. of Rajathan, did not attend the Meeting.
The following are the decisions of the BoG on the Agenda items:

37.1.1 To Confirm the Minutes of the 36th Meeting of the Board of Governors held
on 28th March 2024 in the Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
37.2 Presentation of the Institute Report by the Director, IIT Jodhpur

37.2.1 Action Taken Report on the decisions taken by the Board of Governors in its
36th Meeting held on 28th March 2024 and its previous Meetings
37.3 DISCUSSION ITEMS
37.3.1 To consider and approve the recommendations of the 32nd Meeting of the
Finance Committee held on 28th June 2024 in the Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
37.3.2 To consider and approve the recommendations of the 38th Meeting of the
Senate held on 26th June 2024 at IIT Jodhpur
The Minutes of the 38th Meeting of the Senate held on 26th June 2024 were placed
before the BoG. The Director briefed on the following key recommendations to the
Board:
Course Curriculum for the B.Sc.-B.Ed. Program (ITEP)
The BoG noted that the Senate approved the Course Curriculum for the B.Sc.-B.Ed.
Program (ITEP) for the first two Semesters. The BoG appreciated the “Jodhpur
Model of Teacher’s Education” envisioning the Guru-Shishya Parampara of
the Indian context and culture. The BoG noted that the Institute is starting the
B.Sc.–B.Ed. Program with a Vision of holistic development of the Graduate Teachers
and emphasizing that a significant portion of the Program content will be uniquely
developed by the Institute. The unique Courses being offered by IIT Jodhpur
together with the embedding of technology-enabled innovative technology-learning
process will differentiate the Jodhpur Model from similar Programmes being offered
by the other Institutes / Universities in the Country.
Proposal for Direct Admission to Ph.D. Programme for Graduating B.Tech.
Students of NITs

37.3.3 To consider and approve the recommendations of 33rd Meeting of the
Building & Works Committee (B&WC) held on 24th June 2024 at IIT
Jodhpur

37.3.4 To consider and approve extension of the provision of appointments
through Standing Committee and modification in its constitution
37.3.5 To consider and approve the re-structuring of the Administration by
appointment of various Deans / Associate Deans / other Functionaries for
smooth and efficient functioning of the Institute
37.3.6 To consider and approve formation of Advisory Committees for suggesting
various policies to the Deans
1. Director, IIT Jodhpur or his nominee Chairman
2. Deputy Director / One of the Deans
(To be nominated by the Director) Member
3. Two Experts
(To be nominated by the Director from
the panel of experts approved by the
Board of Governors) Members

37.3.7 To consider and approve the revised process for the Selection and
Assessment of Faculty Members of IIT Jodhpur
37.3.8 To consider and approve process for Secondary Affiliation of Regular
Faculty with Multiple Departments / Centers / Schools
37.3.9 To consider and recommend the revised process for the appointment of the
Deputy Director
Selection Committee as per the
Statutes Proposed Amendment in the
Statutes
(i) Chairman – Director
(ii) Member - One Expert nominated by
the Visitor
(iii) Members – Three from the Panel of
Experts approved by the Board of
Governors (i) Chairman – Director
(ii) Members – Two Experts
approved by the Board of
Governors

37.3.11 To consider and approve minor amendments in the guidelines to engage
Scholar-in-Residence and Part-time Advisor(s)
37.3.12 To consider and approve the appointment of Student Ombudsperson(s)
37.3.13 To review the provision of Young Faculty Associates (YFA)
Existing Proposed Amendment
Tenure: 03 to 10 days at a time Tenure: One year to a maximum of Three
years at a time.
Spend 03 to a maximum of 10 days in a year.
Existing Proposed Amendment
Remuneration: ₹10,000/- to
₹15,000/- per day Remuneration: ₹5,000/- to ₹10,000/- per day
Tenure: Maximum of 8 days in a
month Tenure: One year to a maximum of Five years
with annual renewal.
Spend a maximum of 8 days in a month

37.3.14 To consider and approve the proposal for setting up Endowed Awards for
Student Excellence
37.3.15 To consider and approve the guidelines for setting up an Endowed Faculty
Chair / Endowed Young Faculty Fellowship at IIT Jodhpur
37.3.16 To consider and approve the policy for the “Research Excellence Award” of
IIT Jodhpur

37.3.17 To consider and approve the policy for the “Teaching Excellence Award” of
IIT Jodhpur for the Faculty Members
37.3.18 To consider and approve the Panel of Experts for the selection of Non-
Faculty positions, in addition to the existing panel
37.4 REPORTING, ADOPTING, AND NOTING ITEMS
37.4.1 Report on the implementation of the National Education Policy 2020 at IIT
Jodhpur

37.4.2 Report on the status of filling-up of Backlog vacancies
The Board of Governors noted the report on the status of the filling-up of Backlog
37.4.3 Report on the joining and resigning of the Faculty Members and Staff
Members of the Institute
37.4.4 Adoption of Circulars/ Orders/ O.Ms. of the Ministry of Education,
Government of India
37.4.5 Report of R&D Projects sanctioned to the Faculty Members of the Institute
since the last meeting of the BoG
37.4.6 Report of MoUs/Agreement(s) signed with different Institutions /
organizations / companies by the Institute
37.5 RATIFICATION ITEMS
37.5.1 Approvals accorded by Chairman, Board of Governors/Director.
(a) Approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG through U.O. Note on extension /
appointment through Standing Committees
(b) Reports of Selection Committee of Staff Members
(c) Reports of Standing Committees of Staff Members
(d) Reports of the Performance Review Committee Meeting of newly joined

37.6 Presentation by the 2 Faculty Members on their research work
/accomplishments before the BoG.
1. Prof. Prodyut Ranjan Chakraborty, Department of Mechnaical
Engineering, IIT Jodhpur presented the concepts and operational framework
of the Jodhpur Hydrogen Valley Innovation Cluster (JHVIC) at IIT Jodhpur.
He informed that the Hydrogen Valley is proposed to be established at IIT
Jodhpur in collaboration with prominent academic partners (IIT Delhi, BARC-
Mumbai, IIT Gandhinagar, IIT Bhubaneswar, MNIT Jaipur, BITS Pilani, and
Manipal University Jaipur) and industry partners (NTPC, Waaree Energies
Ltd., Ashok Leyland, AG&P Pratham, Schneider Electric, Indraprastha Gas
Ltd., Inch Enviro Technologies Pvt. Ltd., and Technip Energies), as well as
government and non-government agencies (Government of Rajasthan,
Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), and Jodhpur and
Marudhara Industries Associations). A Section 8 Company and its governing
body will support the overall operation of the Hydrogen Valley.
Prof. Prodyut further highlighted that the primary goal of establishing JHVIC
is to address the entire value chain of Hydrogen (production, storage,
transportation, end-use, and marketing) through technological innovation
and an integrated systems approach. This will be achieved through industrial
deployment at a small scale, leading to the commercial viability of Green
Hydrogen Technology in both Indian and Global contexts. Some of the
envisioned innovations include the development of an indigenous Alkaline
Water Electrolyzer (AWE), the use of grey water for the electrolyzer, novel
power electronics topology, skid-mounted small ammonia plants, small-scale
biomass-to-hydrogen production, hydrogen fuel cells, and the establishment
of world-class testing facilities.
The Chairman, BoG suggested that a comprehensive plan be developed to
evaluate the merits and demerits of the proposed AWE compared to
commercially available alternatives. Additionally, the Chairman suggested
that the scope of the facility should remain open to accommodate future
research while identifying niche areas relevant to Green Hydrogen
Technology.
2. D r. Rachel Philip, Assistant Professor, School of Liberal Arts presented the
work being done to develop a 'Jodhpur Model of Teacher Education'
through the new B.Sc.-B.Ed. (Secondary Stage) Program. Commencing from
AY 2024-2025, IITJ's B.Sc.-B.Ed. Program will follow the guidelines of the
Integrated Teacher Education Program (ITEP), recommended by the National
Council of Teacher Education (NCTE). Students can major in Maths, Physics or
Chemistry in addition to B.Ed. for the Secondary Stage. Dr. Rachel presented
the unique features of the 'Jodhpur Model' which gives students the
opportunity to acquire holistic technological, pedagogical and disciplinary
content knowledge along with a strong ethical foundation and diverse
opportunities for school exposure. The pedagogy and curriculum philosophy
program draws on and reinterprets the Guru-Shishya Parampara for
modern school education.
The Chairman, BoG enquired about the contemporary best practices on which
the IITJ's Program is based. He also queried about the role that IITJ would
play in the selection of students into the Program. It was clarified that the
main selection criteria would be the student's rank in the National Common
Entrance Test (NCET) conducted by NCTE, provided they satisfy other basic
requirements.
The Chairman, BoG, and Members appreciated the presentations made by
both the Faculty Members. 1. Prof. Prodyut Ranjan Chakraborty, Department of Mechnaical
Engineering, IIT Jodhpur presented the concepts and operational framework
Prof. Prodyut further highlighted that t he primary goal of establishing JHVIC

37.7 Any other item with the prior permission of the Chairman
37.7.1 Matter of SME, IITJ functioning in the Project Mode
After the conclusion of the Meeting of the BoG, the Registrar & Secretary, BoG thanked the Chairman, 
BoG, the Director, and the Members for their invaluable time and critical input.
Registrar & Secretary, BoG
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Approved
Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur

New Administrative Structure
Director
Deputy Director
Registrar
Deans (9)
1. 
Dean of Faculty Affairs (DOFA)
2. 
Dean of Students Affairs (DOSA)
3. 
Dean of Academic Affairs (DOAA)
4. 
Dean of International Relations (DOIR)
5. 
Dean of Research and Development (DORD)
6. 
Dean of Infrastructure Planning (DOIP)
7. 
Dean of Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DDIA)
8. 
Dean of Resources & Alumni (DORA)
9. 
Dean of Administration (DOAD)
Associate Deans (15)
1. Associate Dean, Faculty Affairs (ADFA) 
2. Associate Dean, Students Affairs (ADSA) 
3. Associate Dean, Hostel Affairs (ADHA) 
4. Associate Dean, Awards & Scholarships 
(ADAS)
5. Associate Dean, Academic Affairs (ADAA) 
6. Associate Dean, Executive Education (ADEE) 
7. Associate Dean, International Connect (ADIC) 
8. Associate Dean, Research and Development (ADRD) 
9. Associate Dean, Civil Infrastructure (ADCI) 
10. Associate Dean, Electrical Infrastructure (ADEI) 
11. Associate Dean, Airconditioning & Other Services (ADAO) 
12. Associate Dean, Computer Center (ADCC) 
13. Associate Dean, Network and Cybersecurity (ADNC) 
14. Associate Dean, Alumni Relations (ADAR) 
15. Associate Dean, Corporate Relations (ADCR)
Professor In-charge (PICs) (10)
1. PIC, Training & Placement [PIC (TP)] 
2. PIC, Center for Continuing Education [PIC (CCE)] 
3. PIC, Vocational Training and Upskilling [PIC (VTU)] 
4. PIC, Campus Security & Transport [PIC (CST)] 
5. PIC, Visitors Hostel and Allied Services [PIC (VH)] 
6. PIC, Research Park [PIC (RP)] 
7. PIC, Innovation & Incubation [PIC (II)] 
8. PIC, Companies Oversight [PIC (S8)] 
9. PIC, IITJ Connect [PIC (IIC)] 
10.PIC, Green Cell [PIC (GC)]