SOURCE_PDF: 1c33591c1128_Non-Teaching-Staff-Members-Syllabus-IITJ-O_E-II_-2024-25-Non-Academic-Staff-57-63877991.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Syllabus for the post of TECHNICAL SUPERINTENDENT (Metallurgical & Material Engineering)
WRITTEN TEST 
Mechanical Testing: Tensile, Compression, Hardness, Fatigue, Creep, Impact.
Heat Treatment: Heat treatment of steels and aluminium alloys. Surface hardening treatment.
Metallography: Sample preparation, Micro and Macro etching. Electropolishing. Microstructure of ferrous 
and non-ferrous metals.
Metal casting: Mould design involving feeding, gating and risering, melting and casting practices, casting 
defects
Hot, Warm and Cold Working of Metals: Metal forming – basics of metal forming processes of rolling, 
forging, extrusion, wire drawing and sheet metal forming, defects in forming
Metal Joining: Principles of soldering, brazing and welding, welding metallurgy, defects in welded joints in 
steels and aluminium alloys
Powder Metallurgy: production of powders, compaction and sintering
Non-destructive Testing (NDT): Dye-penetrant, ultrasonic, radiography, eddy current, acoustic emission 
and magnetic particle inspection methods
Iron and Steel Making: Operation of blast furnace. primary steel making: basic oxygen furnace, process 
dynamics, oxidation reactions, electric arc furnace
Basics of Phase Diagram of Steels and Aluminium alloys
Mineral Beneficiation, Size classification, flotation, gravity and other methods of mineral beneficiation; 
agglomeration: sintering, pelletizing and briquetting.
Electrochemistry and Corrosion: Single electrode potential, electrochemical cells, Nernst equation, potential-
pH diagrams. Forms of corrosion.
Basics of semiconductor: Intrinsic and extrinsic semiconductors, doping, donor and accepter in 
semiconductor, fermi-level, effective mass, band theory of solids, direct and indirect band gap.
Semiconductor devices: p-n junction, diode, capacitor, MOSFET, transistor, logic gates.
Basics of characterization techniques: X-ray diffraction, transmission electron microscopy, electron 
diffraction, atomic force microscopy, scanning electron microscopy, scanning tunnelling microscopy, FTIR, 
Raman spectroscopy, phase contrast microscopy.
Basic working expertise with maintenance of computers.
Basic mathematics
SKILL TEST 
Mechanical Testing: Tensile, Compression, Hardness, Impact.
Heat Treatment: Heat treatment of steels and aluminium alloys.
Metallography: Sample preparation, Micro and Macro etching, Microstructure of ferrous and nonferrous 
metals, Optical microscopy.
Metal casting: Melting and casting practices.
Material characterization: 4 probe method, 2 Probe method, MvsH & MvsT measurements, Lithography, UV-
visible
Basic skills to operate computational tools.