SOURCE_PDF: 1c436bc66733_Advertisement-Document-1-638780077123983433.pdf

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
NAGAUR ROAD, KARWAR, JODHPUR- 342030
Advertisement No.: IITJ/Junior Project Assistant/2024/01
Date: 09 April,2024
ADVERTISEMENT FOR THE POST OF: Junior Project Assistant for the Office of Executive Education
Applications are invited from the Indian nationals for the post of Junior Project Assistant for the Office of 
Executive Education.
Position(s)
 
 
 /Number
 
 
 of
 
 
post
 
 : Junior Project Assistant for the Office of Executive Education
1.
Essential Qualification:
Essential Qualification and Experience:
●
Bachelor's degree in Engineering, Computer Science, or MCA with a stellar academic record 
of 60% or above from a recognized institute.
●
Minimum of one year of work experience in "Online Education Program," Executive 
Education Programs, Continuing Education Programs, or Skill Development Programs.
As a Junior Project Assistant, you will be entrusted with a diverse range of responsibilities. Here's what the 
role entails:
●
Proficiency in office procedures, including drafting, and managing correspondence.
●
Experience in one or more of the following areas: maintenance of accounts, processing 
bills, purchasing procedures, coordinating meetings and conferences, managing admissions 
and examinations, and familiarity with computer office applications.
●
Efficiently handle tasks related to maintaining account ledgers, processing bills, and 
purchasing procedures.
●
Assist in coordinating meetings, conferences, and other project-related activities.
●
Support in the admission and conduct of examinations, ensuring smooth processes throughout.
●
Proficiently utilize computer office applications to streamline project tasks and 
enhance productivity.
Maximum Age: 30 Years
1.
Remuneration. 30,000/- per month (consolidated)
2.
Working Days – 05 days a week (Presence may be required on weekends as per need basis)
3.
Duration of contract – Initially for a period of 1 year and extendable up to 3 years on evaluation
of satisfactory performance

How
 
 
 
to 
 apply:
The candidates are advised to apply online through website URL:
https://erponline.iitj.ac.in/CAREER/auth/onlineApplication.htm . The last date of application is
April 24, 2024. Only Online applications will be accepted.
General
 
 
 Terms
 
 
 and
 
 
 Conditions:
1.
Institute reserves the right to terminate the services in case he/she is unable to perform
his/her duty to the satisfaction or at any time with one month’s notice.
2.
No TA/DA shall be admissible for joining the assignment.
3.
The office of Executive Education will verify the antecedents or documents submitted by a
candidate at the time of appointment or during the tenure of the service. In case, it is detected
that the documents submitted by the candidates are fake or the candidate has clandestine
antecedents/background and has suppressed the said information, then his/her services shall be
terminated.
4.
The office of Executive Education reserves the right to:
a.
Fix, modify or revise the eligibility conditions, age and selection criteria as per its
requirements, at any time.
b. In case of any inadvertent mistake in the process of selection, which may be detected at
any stage even after issue of the appointment letter, the office reserves the right to modify,
withdraw or cancel any communication made to the Applicants.
c. Place a reasonable limit on the total number of candidates to be called for the Interview.
5.
No TA/DA shall be paid to the candidates for attending the interview.
6.
No correspondence will be entertained from candidates regarding the interview and reasons for
not being called for the interview.
7.
Canvassing in any form or bringing in any influence political or otherwise will be a
disqualification for the post.
8.
In case of any dispute/ambiguity that may occur in the process of selection, the decision of the
concerned office shall be final.
9.
Certificate in support of experience should be in proper format i.e. it should be on the
organization's letterhead, bear the date of issue, specific period of work, name and designation
of the issuing authority along with his signature.
10.
Interested candidates may also in their own interest ensure that they fulfill the eligibility
conditions. Ineligible candidates will not be allowed to appear for an interview. Verification of
documents will be done before the interview.
11.
The number of vacancies indicated in the notification is tentative. Institute reserves the right to
increase or decrease or NOT to fill any of the posts advertised.