SOURCE_PDF: 1ca22fa011ff_Process-of-redress-of-grievances--1-638870630756794923.pdf

SINo I Hostel Bovs/Girls Warden
1 I 12 Girls Dr. Moumita Mandal (MA)
2 I 13 Girls Dr. Mithu Rani Kuiti (MA)
3 B2 Girls Dr. Sucharita Dey (BB)
4 B4 Girls Dr. Arnrita Puri (ME)
5 G4 Girls Dr. Sunita (PY)
6 I Gl Boys Dr. Vikky Anand (CH)
7 G2 Boys Dr. P. Ravi Prakash (CE)
8 G3 Bovs Dr. S. Srivatsa Srinivas (AIDE)
9 G5 Boys Dr. Sai Kiran MPR (EE)
10 G6 Boys Dr. Sudipta Bhattacharyya (BB)
11 B1 Boys Dr. Hrishikesh (ME)
12 I B3 Bovs Dr. Pratik Mazumder (CSE)
13 I B5 Boys Dr. Bhupendra Singh Reniwal (EE)
14 I Y3 Boys Dr. Sumit Kamal (CH)
15 Y4 Bovs Dr. Palash Das (CSE)
16 03 Bovs Dr. Saran Aadhar (CE)
17 10 4 Boys Dr. Devendra Singh Ne g] (MT)
18 Mess All Dr. Pranay Ranjan (MT)
51 No Boys/Girls Assistant Warden
1. Girls Dr. N.Chandana(CETSD)
2. Girls Dr. Pallavi Jain (CSE)
3. Boys Dr. Mavank Suman (CE)
4. Boys Dr. Gopakumar K. U. (SoLA)
5. Boys Dr. Akshav Moudgil(EE)
6. Boys Dr. Pankaj Yadav (BSBE)
7. Boys Dr. Venkat Ram Reddy(SME)
8. Boys Dr. Ramesh Asapu (CH)
9. Boys Dr. Curuiegan Murugesan (SoLA)
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
OFFICE ORDER
IITJ/OS(HA)/2024-25/aa:
31 July 2024
In supersession of all earlier Office Order (5) on the matter, the following Faculty Members will be
involved in different student activities, with effective from 01 August 2024 for a period of one year:
To
1.
All Concerned Faulty Members
Copy to: for kind information
Director
1.1 Office of Estate
~. Office of Internal Audit
14· Webmaster for uploading on the Intranet of Institute's website

Roles and responsibilities of the Hostel Warden & Mess Warden
Roles and responsibility of the Hostel Warden
1.
The wardens shall take the responsibility to ensure a safe, harmonious, and healthy living
environment in the hostel specifically assigned to him/her.
2.
The warden shall act as the local administrator of the hostel and shall be responsible to
implement the rule and regulations of the institute pertaining to the hostels and its residents.
It is the responsibility of the warden to maintain discipline in and around the hostel. Student
General secretary of each hostel should work under the guidance of the warden of their
respective hostel.
3.
The warden shall act as the primary repotting as well as an action-taking authority regarding
any issues related to security, health, and accident of the residents of the hostel assigned to
him/her. They will address the medical, social, and personal emergencies of the resident
students and will attend to the situation in person whenever necessary and may need to go
beyond the call of duty and extends work hours in an emergency.
4.
The warden shall visit the hostel on regular basis. He / She needs to daily 1.0 hours (minimum)
in the warden office on all working days, interact with the residents and resolve local
issues/problems of the residents. Besides that, the warden should be approachable to the
students through phone and other means of communication.
5.
The warden needs to take proactive measures to keep the Hostel 'Ragging Free'.
6.
Ground staff (caretakers and hostel staff) and staff from office of students assign to hostel will
report to the warden on regular basis regarding the hostel inventory and status of the safety
measures (fire extinguisher, first -aid). Warden has to take an account of these issues and need
to do the needful as per the requirement.
7.
It is the responsibility of the warden to supervise the hostel events such as 'Hall Day' or Intra
Hostel Sports.
8.
The wardens will function under the overall supervision and coordination of the Dean of
Student Affairs (DoSA) & Associate Dean (Hostel Affairs).
9.
All the wardens will be members of Wardens Committee. It is a part of the responsibility of the
warden to attend the meetings of the Wardens Committee and actively participate in the
decision-making.
10. Warden will report any cases of indiscipline / undesired event inside the hostel to the Office
of Students (Hostel Affairs) at his/her earliest and may recommend monitory fine or
disciplinary actions against the offender. The Office of Students (Hostel Affairs) will report the
issue and Dean of Student Affairs (DoSA) & Associate Dean (Hostel Affairs) will make a
decision on the same. The Authorities may also forward the case to the Disciplinary Committee.
11. Purchase requisition of any material related to a specific hostel should be verified and
recommended by the warden. Warden will act as an indenter for the procurement of items
specific to the hostel assigned to him/her. Associate Dean (Hostel Affairs) will recommend and
Dean of Student Affairs (DoSA) will give the final approval for the purchase as per the Institute
guidelines or may recommend the same to the higher authority.
12. For purchase of materials common to all the hostels or few hostel, the Vice President (V P) of
the Board of Hostel Affairs or the Office of Students may send the requisition to Dean of
Student Affairs (DoSA) through Associate Dean (Hostel Affairs). On the
recommendation,
Assistant Registrar/Deputy RegistrarlJoint Registrar
will
act
as
an
indenter of the
procurement for the items which cost is below the 'approving limit' of the Dean / Associate
Dean (Hostel affairs) while Dean (Students) will be the indenter for the procurement of items
whose price is higher than their approving power and for such cases approval will be given by
Deputy Director/Director.

13. For any leave/absence from work, the warden needs to inform the Office of Students (Hostel
Affairs) in advance. Furthermore, he I she needs to make an alternative arrangement. In such
case, the warden of another hostel should perform his/her duty and a written consent duly
signed by them should be submitted to the Office of Students (Hostel Affairs).
14. As a part of Warden Committee activities, Wardens need to review rules and guidelines of the
hostels periodically and need to recommended appropriate changes.
Roles and responsibilities of the Mess Warden:
1.
The Mess Warden shall lead the dining committee and monitor the overall cleanliness, hygiene,
and ambiance of the dining hall and mess kitchen.
2.
Mess Warden, along with the dining committee members shall check the quality and quantity
of the cooked food. He shall also lead the drive to check the brand and the quality of the raw
materials used and their storage condition.
3.
Mess Warden shall take initiative to sensitize the students about appropriate dining etiquette
and special practices (e.g. appropriate behaviour in the dining hall)
4.
It is the responsibility of the Mess Warden to take necessary action to prevent food waste.
5.
Mess Warden shall inspect the condition of the Dining hall and mess kitchen daily, interact
with the students in the dining and prepare a weekly report on the same.
6.
It is the responsibility of the Mess Warden to maintain discipline in and around the dining area.
7.
Mess Warden shall be actively involved in selecting the dining menu and fixing the dining
time.
8.
Mess Warden will function under the overall supervision and coordination of the Dean of
Student Affairs (DoSA)& Associate Dean (Hostel Affairs). Mess Warden will also be a member
of Wardens Committee.
9.
Mess Warden will report any cases of indiscipline / undesired event inside the Dining hall/
mess to the Wardens Committee at his/Her earliest and may recommend monitory fine or
disciplinary actions against the offender. The Wardens Committee will discuss the issue and
will take a decision on the same, The Wardens Committee may also forward the case to
Disciplinary committee.
10. Mess Warden shall investigate any grievance related to food and service and guide the
Wardens Committee to take appropriate decision on issue.
11. Mess Warden is empowered to conduct audit to the dining and kitchen area.
12. Mess Warden will be the indenter for any specific purchase related to Dining and Mess.
Associate Dean (Hostel Affairs) will recommend and Dean of Student Affairs (DoSA) will give
the final approval for the purchase as per the Institute guidelines or may recommend the same
to the higher authority.