SOURCE_PDF: 1e548b15072e_Final_ConceptNote_HSS_2021_20with_20all_20modifications_20_13.01.2022.pdf

Department of HSS
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

1. Introduction
The Department of Humanities and Social Sciences (HSS) plays a unique role in an Institute where 
the ethos of Science and Technology is predominant. Within the coordinates of the IIT system, the 
Department offers a unique scope to study and comprehend the critical role of technology within a 
socio-cultural context. With faculty members who specialize in diverse disciplines and students from 
a spectrum of backgrounds, the Department provides an enriching platform where technical education 
can be complemented with human and social understanding. 
 
Furthermore, the Department, with its faculty from a wide spectrum of diverse disciplines, paves the 
way for learning and discussions on multiple issues ranging from the rigor of analysis to engagement 
with multiple cultures, individual struggles, political trends, dialogue and reasoning. Thus, the 
Department of HSS facilitates a well-rounded and expansive point of view amongst the student 
community. These young minds that come in contact with varied knowledge systems are likely to 
evolve into reflective and thinking individuals with refined sensibilities. Such a process is expected to 
enable them to appreciate life more creatively, effectively, and holistically and contribute in a positive 
way to the nation at large. 
 
 
2. Objectives 
The IIT system and fraternity was set up in order to create the scientific-technological sensibility that 
was necessary for a newly independent developing nation. It has never been about a mere production 
of technocrats. The humanities and social science disciplines offer IIT undergraduates a holistic and 
self-reflective education, making them suitable for a changing global education and work ecosystem 
where disciplinary boundaries perish and interdisciplinarity emerges as the new norm. To achieve that, 
the HSS education in the IITs introduces students to processes of knowledge production in the 
discipline and makes them reflect on the interconnectedness that exists between different disciplines. 
What we seek to create is an exciting body of new knowledge that will allow us to operate from 
unbiased –unconstrained – free thinking spaces. 
 
 
3. Expected Graduate Attributes 
A student who has completed HSS electives in the curriculum is expected to have the ability to:
a. Develop finer sensibilities, experience the nuances of creativity and the power of
imagination
b. Appreciate and analyses modes of engagement with diverse aesthetic and cultural forms 
c. Understand diversity of values, thought and accept differences. 
d. Empathize with diverse aspects of human endeavor and to be sensitive to societal needs.
4. Learning Outcomes 
A student, after having HSS education in the IIT system, is supposed to:
a. Identify and understand social issues and devise socio-technical solutions built on social
awareness and informed imagination.
b. Become a pragmatic individual who can contribute in creating sustainable futures. 
c. Gain awareness of rights as a citizen and location within the wider social context 
d. Reflect critically on own disciplinary biases 
e. Develop a sense of interdisciplinarity and acquaint herself with the various processes of
knowledge production
5. Skillsets targeted 
Creative Thinking, Empathy, Reflective Learning, Engaging with Society, Critical thinking, Logical 
Reasoning, Argumentation, Metacognitive Ability, Imagination, Ethical Sensibility, Scientific Thinking 
 
 
6. Topic clouds and Mapping of Topic clouds with proposed courses 
 
HSS Bouquet I: Literature 
Objectives: The courses at this level will

SN Bouquet I Bouquet II Bouquet III Bouquet IV
1. Short stories from
around the world Introduction to
sociology Microeconomics 1
(AIDE-CMCE) Introduction to
Philosophy
2. Regional literature
in translation Digital Society Microeconomics 2
(AIDE-CMCE) Fundamentals of logic
3. Creative writing Urban Sociology Health Economics Critical Thinking
4. Postcolonial Fiction Indian Society: A
sociological
introduction Industrial Organization Cognitive Semantics
5. Short Fiction from
India Youth studies Health and
Development Philosophical Problems
a. Expose students to a global canvas in literature. 
b. Inculcate an appreciation for diverse literary works including those from cultures outside the
Anglophone world.
Learning Outcomes: On completing courses at this level, students are expected to have the ability 
to:
a. Develop a sensibility for literature as an aesthetic form. 
b. Critically analyze and locate literary texts within cultural contexts.
HSS Bouquet II: Sociology, History, Political Science 
Objectives: The courses at this level will
a. Educate students about (global) society, history, politics and culture. 
b. Sensitize students on issues of gender and social stratification. 
c. Raise awareness on impact of science and technology on society.
Learning Outcomes: On completing courses at this level, students are expected to have the ability 
to:
a. Critically conceptualize society, culture and politics. 
b. Understand disciplinary biases in scientism, technology and engineering.
HSS Bouquet III: Economics, Management, Public Health 
Objectives: The courses at this level will
a. Provide the basic foundation of Economics for understanding the interplay of demand and
b. To use simple economic theories to analyse and understand decision making processes by
governments, organizations and individuals.
c. Provide understanding of India’s health care system with special focus on health economics
and financing.
Learning Outcomes: On completing courses at this level, students are expected to have the ability 
to:
a. Understand the functioning of the Economy: its structure and components. 
b. Understand the economics behind the common phenomena like inflation, unemployment, GDP,
c. Understand the health system and its various components in India.
HSS Bouquet IV: Philosophy, Policy, Governance 
Objectives: The courses at this level will
a. Make students be sensitive to dilemmas in professional, personal and social life. 
b. Develop logical and critical thinking. 
c. Make students aware of the dynamics of policy deliberation and implementation.
Learning Outcomes: On completing courses at this level, students are expected to have the ability 
to:
a. Develop ethical and aesthetic sensibility. 
b. Nurture finer fibers that bind social harmony and integrity 
c. Ability to imagine and propose structural changes that are conducive to sustainable
Course list in HSS Bouquets

6. Science Fiction Law and Society Indian Economic
Development and
Policy Introduction to Indian
Philosophy
7. Introduction to
Theatre Sociology of Work
and Industry Political and
Institutional
Economics of
Development Theories of justice
8. Short Fictions from
South Asian
Diaspora Development and
Environment Foundations and
Finance Gandhian Thought
9. Classic Detective
Fiction Social Stratification Individual and
Strategic Decision
Making (AIDE-CMCE) Role of Technology in
Development
10. Social and Economics
Networks (AIDE-
CMCE) Disasters, Risk
Reduction, and
Management
11. Behavioral Economics
and Decision Theory
(AIDE-CMCE) Political and Cultural
Ecology
Area Topics Course [Humanities
Electives (IH)/Open
Electives
(OE)/Specialization
Core/Electives (SC/SE)]
Literature Short story, short fiction, world literature,
transnational literature, twentieth-century,
Anglophone writing, modernism, magic realism Short Stories from around
the World (IH)
Regional literatures in translation, regional literature,
comparative analysis, translation, transliteration,
literary cultures, multilingual literary cultures Regional Literature in
Translation (IH)
Creative imagination, writing, creativity, genres of
writing, writing workshop, composition, writing craft,
plot, scene, dialogue, memoir, screenplay, short
fiction, writing prompts, creative nonfiction,
publishing Creative Writing (IH)
British Colonialism, Indian writers in English, Indian
novels, short stories by Indian writers, Indian
diaspora fiction, Victorian era, globalization, Indian
national identity, regional contestations,
autobiographical novel, historical novel, Indian
fantasy fiction, Independence and Partition, caste,
identity politics, subaltern fiction, writing from the
margins, postcolonial theories Postcolonial Fiction (IH)
Short fiction, Creative imagination, South Asia,
Brevity, Flash fiction, fiction, plot, scene, narrative,
literary and popular fiction, genre fiction Short Fiction from India
(IH)
Science fiction, dystopia, apocalyptic fiction, world
wars, time travel, man vs. machine, humanity and
technology, progressivism and Science fiction, alien
life, metaphorical thinking Science Fiction (IH)
Table 1. Topics and Mapping of Topic with Courses

Area Topics Course [Humanities
Electives (IH)/Open
Electives
(OE)/Specialization
Core/Electives (SC/SE)]
Theatre/drama, text/performance, Aristotelian
theatre, Brechtian/epic theatre, theatre of the absurd,
biomechanics, poor theatre, theatre of the oppressed,
third theatre, Indian theatre histories Introduction to Theatre
(IH)
South Asian diasporic literature, immigration of South
Asians, cultural identity, notions of home and
belonging, model minority, gender and sexual
identity, experiences of dislocation and acculturation,
queer diaspora. Short Fictions from South
Asian Diaspora (IH)
War literatures, Speculative fiction, Novel of Crime,
Thrillers, Intrigue, Spy fiction, Espionage, War
literatures. Classic Detective Fiction
(IH)
Popular literature, popular culture, from text to film,
comparative analysis, literary genres, genre analysis,
classical literature Popular classics (OE)
Basic aspects of film aesthetics, film and other arts,
film criticism and appreciation, film history (early
cinema, classical Hollywood, Italian Neorealism,
French New Wave), introduction to film theory
(classical and post-classical), Third Cinema, Indian
cinemas, digital cinema Introduction to Film Studies
(OE)
Dalit studies, Ambedkar’s writings, Gandhi-Ambedkar
debate, concept of untouchability and its philosophical
explorations (Aniket Jaaware and others), anti-caste
movements in North, West and South India, dalit
identity and politics, dalit literatures from
Maharashtra (Namdeo Dhasal, Sharankumar Limbale)
and South India Dalit Movement and
Literature (OE)
Introducing Emergency, historical trajectory,
literature review, cinema, cine-politics and cultural
politics, censorship, state sponsorship and film
economy, Indian cinemas in the 1970s, globalization
of the dictatorial in the 1970s, digital remembering Cine-politics under the
National emergency (OE)
Literary history, literary terms and genres, literary
cultures in history, impact of technology on literature,
history of publishing, linguistic analysis, discourse
analysis, semantics, South Asian literatures, oral and
print cultures in literature Perspectives in Language
and Literary Studies (DH)
(OE)
Introduction to the world of publishing with both its
practical and creative aspects. The course also
prepares students for the different kinds of
opportunities they could explore after the conclusion
of their degrees, and the publishing industry, as an
emerging field, could be one such avenue. Introduction to Editing and
Publishing (OE)

Area Topics Course [Humanities
Electives (IH)/Open
Electives
(OE)/Specialization
Core/Electives (SC/SE)]
Film history and historiography, colonial history,
national history, ideological history, institutional
history, biographical-historical, economic history,
exhibitional history, global history, film
anthropology/ethnography, genre, corporeal and
spatial history Indian Cinemas: Many
Histories (OE)
Introduction to literatures from the eight ecological-
rich states in India’s Northeast by weaving a narrative
of political fragility, oral tradition, and collective
memories while dispelling the misconceptions about
this heterogeneous region Introduction to Literatures
from India’s Northeast (OE)
Introduction to visual arts, Art history and major art
movements in Europe (from classical to modern),
Histories of ancient and medieval Indian art,
Renaissance perspective and Indian resistance, Major
Indian artists and art groups, visual art, experimental
cinema, installation art, new modes of exhibition Introduction to
Contemporary Arts (OE)
Introduction to performance, performance theories,
performance history through the ages, classical
drama, Renaissance drama, dramaturgy, playgoing
cultures, theatre movements and modernism, acting
styles, absurd theatre, theatre-cinema interface,
classical Indian theatre, Indian theatre in colonial and
postcolonial times Introduction to
Performance Studies (OE)
Post-Independence theatre and institutional histories,
urban/folk, theatre in the long 1960s, major
playwrights and select plays, production
histories, film adaptation of theatrical texts, political
theatre, third theatre, theatre after globalization Modern Indian Theatre
(OE)
Introducing different genre of Asian American
literature, close textual reading and conversation. Asian American Literature
(OE)
Introducing world literature, World literature and its
complexities, Cinema and the translation,
Contemporary categories World Literature and Global
Cinema (OE)
Sociology,
History,
Political
Science Sociological Theories and Perspectives; Social
Structures, Social Institutions (Family, Marriage,
Education, Religion, Economy); Social Stratifications
(Ethnicity, Race, Class, Caste, Gender); Social
Inequalities; Social processes (Migration and
Mobilities); Community, Globalisation and
Environment; People, Places, and Technology Introduction to Sociology
(IH)

Area Topics Course [Humanities
Electives (IH)/Open
Electives
(OE)/Specialization
Core/Electives (SC/SE)]
Digital components of a connected society; new forms
of power; Data as sociomaterial objects; Digital
identities; Urban informatics and sociological
imagination; Digital healthcare, mobility, Digital
heritage; Networks and cultural imaginary;
Information capital, information management Digital Society (IH)
History of Urbanization, Concept of urbanization, Re-
settlement colonies, Urban poor, urban
infrastructures, mobilities, Urban markets, Riots and
the city, case study of New Delhi and its importance
in urban studies Urban Sociology (IH)
Caste, Class, social stratification, Indian economy and
polity, traditional systems of administration, Tribes,
Green revolution, Studies of urban areas, Rural
sociology, Marriage, Family and Kinship, Mobility in
cities Indian Society: A
sociological introduction
(IH)
Youth movements, relationships, youth subcultures,
youth and technology, social media, identity Youth studies (IH)
Sociology of Law, Legal Language, Morality, Justice,
Social Deviance, Multiple legalities Law and Society (IH)
Industry, work, sociology of work, trade unions, labor,
new work, technology and new forms of work and
labor, labor rights today, labor and technology Sociology of Work and
Industry (IH)
Natural Resource Management, Gender, Policy,
Governance, Law, Environment Movements,
Development Discourses Development and
Environment (IH)
Class analysis and class structures, and
transformations, Theories on caste with empirical
focus on India, Stratification and Gender, Racem
ethnicity and stratification Social Stratification (IH)
Classical Sociological thinkers, Structural
Functionalism, Conflict Theories, Modernity and
postmodernism, Globalization, Cultural Theory,
Materialism, Theories of Consumption Globalization and culture
(OE)
Science and Technology studies, Ethnography of a
laboratory, social construction of reality, social
construction of nature, Discrimination in science,
Actor Network Theory, Anthropology of non-humans,
ecological understanding of world, Science and
technology is colonial India, Science and Governance
in India, History and Philosophy of Science and
Technology, Technology and Art Sociology of Science and
Technology (OE)
Concept of culture, cultural studies: theories and
debates, popular culture, identity, visual and audio-
visual cultures, heritage and conservation, intangible
heritage, fine arts, music, literary arts, oral traditions Culture, Art and Heritage
(OE)

Area Topics Course [Humanities
Electives (IH)/Open
Electives
(OE)/Specialization
Core/Electives (SC/SE)]
Gender as social construction; Gender in Colonial
History; Gender across geo-social scales; Gender and
Migration; Feminisms; Gender, Science, and
Technology (Household technologies; Medical
technologies; Communication technologies); Video
Games; Imagining and Representing Gender; Gender
in Literature and Culture; Postcolonial Studies;
Normativity, Subversions, and Queer Studies; Global
Gender Politics Gender and Society (OE)
Economic
s,
Managem
ent, Public
Health Preferences, utility theory, cardinal vs optimal
approaches, utility maximization problem, cardinal vs
ordinal approaches, expenditure minimization,
demand analysis, integrability and recoverability,
weak axiom of revealed preference, producer theory,
welfare theorems, market structures, general
equilibrium: introductory. Microeconomics 1 (AIDE-
CMCE) (IH)
Game theory: overview, information economics,
auctions and mechanism design problems, general
equilibrium theory Microeconomics 2 (AIDE-
CMCE) (IH)
Economics of health; Microeconomic and
macroeconomic theory of health sector;
Understanding health systems; Health insurance
schemes. Health Economics (IH)
Introduction to concepts for economic analysis;
market structures and strategic techniques; price
discrimination; static and dynamic competition;
product differentiation; entry, accommodation and
exit. Industrial Organization (IH)
Concepts of health and development; Wellbeing of the
world; Inequalities in health, and social determinants
of health; Impact of globalization on health; Health,
development and challenges in India. Health and Development
(IH)
Exploration of current and evolving policy debates in
the backdrop of issues pertaining to economic
development of India. Indian Economic
Development and Policy
(IH)
Importance and role of institutions, politics and
society in economic growth and development, Impact
of intricately-related institutional and political aspects
on decisions and actions, society and the economy. Political and Institutional
Economics of Development
(IH)
Basics of Money, Banking and Financial Markets,
basics of personal finance, working of finance Foundations of Finance (IH)
Introduction to strategic games, strict and weak
domination, rationalizability and iterated elimination,
Nash equilibrium, correlated equilibrium, Bayesian
games, extensive form games, games with imperfect Individual and Strategic
Decision Making (AIDE-
CMCE) (IH)

Area Topics Course [Humanities
Electives (IH)/Open
Electives
(OE)/Specialization
Core/Electives (SC/SE)]
Introduction to networks, representing and
measuring networks, random networks, network
games, economic applications Social and Economic
Networks (AIDE-CMCE)
(IH)
Rational choice, important axioms in choice theory
and their relevance in characterizing choice, decision
theory models with boundedly rational agents,
stochastic choice models, decision making under
uncertainty, applications of decision theory in AI. Behavioral Economics and
Decision Theory (AIDE-
CMCE) (IH)
Principles, measurements, and diseases burden;
Concepts of global health, and its relevance;
Determinants of global health and policy; Medical
technologies; Cross-cutting global health themes;
Global health institutions. Global Health (OE)
Making health policy; Evolution of India’s Health
policy; Understanding health system; Healthcare
financing. Health Policy, Systems and
Financing (OE)
Making Health Policy, Evolution of India’s Health
Policy, Understanding Health System, Healthcare
financing, National Level Secondary Health Data Sets Healthy Policy, Systems
and Financing (OE)
Philosoph
y, Policy,
Governan
ce Wisdom, Insight, Foresight, Intellectual Traditions,
Western Philosophy, Eastern Schools of Thought,
Contemporary Philosophy, Major Philosophical Issues Introduction to Philosophy
(IH)
Truth and Validity, Reasoning, Propositional Logic,
Predicate Logic, Aristotelian Logic, Fundamentals of logic (IH)
Informal fallacies, cognitive biases, Cognitive
Unconscious, Dual Processing Critical Thinking (IH)
Language, Metaphors, Meaning and Conceptual
Structure Cognitive semantics (IH),
Epistemological problems, Metaphysical Problems,
Theodicy, Ethical Dilemmas, Meaning of Life Philosophical Problems (IH)
Indian Intellectual Tradition, Salient Features of
Indian Philosophy, Major Schools of Thought,
Classical and Contemporary Thinkers Introduction to Indian
Philosophy (IH)
Concepts of Justice, Distributive Justice, Procedural
Fairness, Global Justice, Intergenerational Justice,
Restorative Justice, Grounds of Justice Theories of justice (IH)
Significance of Gandhian Thought; Major Works and
Ideas of Gandhi; Gandhian Concept of Peace and
Nonviolence; The Triad; Eleven Virtues; Idea of
Progress and Development; Political Thought; Politics,
Law and Morality; Contemporary Relevance Gandhian Thought (IH)

Area Topics Course [Humanities
Electives (IH)/Open
Electives
(OE)/Specialization
Core/Electives (SC/SE)]
History of development, Concept of Development,
Planning in India, Technology as key for India’s
development, Low carbon economy Role of technology in
development (IH)
Natural Disasters and Pandemics, Natural Resource
Management, build back better, vulnerability,
foresight, risk, resilience livelihoods, National-state
policies, geo-politics, international aid, CSOs, GIS,
emerging technologies Disasters, Risk Reduction,
and Management (IH)
Social construction of nature, natural resource
management and conservation, development,
degradation and marginalization, neoliberalism and
environmental governance Political and Cultural
Ecology (IH)
Development of Intellectual Traditions; History of
Sciences; Critical Thinking; Analytic Tradition;
Paradigmatic Shifts; Scientific Temper; Limits of
Scientific Explanations History and Philosophy of
Science (OE)
The idea of sustainability; emergence and scope of
sustainability science; basic principles of sustainable
development; seminal works, documents and
declarations; technological imperatives and social
imperatives; sciences, values and value of sciences;
plausible applications of technologies and
sustainability concerns; energy, society, and
environment; global pollution and health risks;
susceptibility assessment; evolutionary roots of
environmental problems; Social benefits and
technological risks; perceiving and justifying risks,
cost-benefit analysis and right based approach;
uncertainty assessment and precautionary principle;
sustainable development goals Foundations of
Sustainability (OE)
Natural Resource Management, Food Security,
Agriculture, Migration, Environment, health, Disasters Climate Change and
Society (OE)
Natural Resource Management, Conflict, Livelihoods,
Migration, Agriculture, Emerging Technologies,
pollution, geo-politics, energy, cost-benefit, SDGs Politics of water governance
(OE)
Other The nature of beauty and art; Platonic, Aritotelian,
and Kantian concepts of beauty; aesthetic experience
and judgment; the sublime; pleasure; existentialist
perspectives; the genius and creativity; freedom and
creative expressions; spectator’s vantage point;
feminist perspectives; the body; postmodern art;
aesthetics of design; factors in design; industrial
culture and design of products Aesthetics (OE)
Bioethical problems, professional dilemmas, animal
and biosphere Bioethics (OE)

Area Topics Course [Humanities
Electives (IH)/Open
Electives
(OE)/Specialization
Core/Electives (SC/SE)]
Theories of consciousness, Science and philosophy of
consciousness, altered states of consciousness, self
and free will Consciousness (OE)
Introduction to emotion, intelligence, learning,
memory, forgetting, personality, self, mastery, group
behavior, stereotype, prejudices, attribution Principles of Psychology
(OE)
Leadership basics, leader and follower interaction,
gender and leadership issues, power and leadership
connection, sources of power, power and unethical
behavior, development of leadership qualities Basics of Leadership (OE)
Experiential learning-based discussion on soft skill
like, self-awareness, empathy, emotional intelligence
and regulation, unhelpful thinking styles,
assertiveness, positive communication, delegation
and group management Life and Professional Skill
Development (OE)
Concepts and issues related to happiness and
flourishing, well-being, positive emotion, mindfulness
and flow, character strength and virtues Positive Psychology and
Wellbeing (OE)
Consumption, markets, consumer society,
commodity culture, consumption and class, material
culture, overconsumption, consumer citizenship,
global consumption, commodity flows Consumer Culture and
Commodities (OE)
History of Civilizations and role of technology;
Narratives of Progress; Social Construction of
Technology - Colonial Technology; Diffusion and
transfer of technology; Rise of the Internet and Digital
Societies; Basics of archaeology (concept, methods,
practices) Civilizations, Cultures, and
Technologies (DH) (OE)
Visual Cultures; Images as Performative Space;
Digital media and Global Image; Images, Power, and
Resistance; Netnography / Digital Ethnography Image, Imaginations, and
Digital Cultures (DH) (OE)
Emerging contours of Digital Humanities, Data and
Knowledge Representation, Digital Archives Fundamentals of Digital
Humanities (DH) (OE)
Introduction to New Media, its theories and histories,
its social, political and cultural implications; public
domain and digital commons, network society, online
streaming and authorship debates, piracy and IP
rights; media lab as research space; New Media and
Indian/global politics New Media Studies (DH)
(OE)
End of celluloid, post-cinema, digital cinema and
durational principles, slow cinema, emerging domains
of exhibition and spectatorship, digital film archives
and databases, streaming platforms and authorship
debates, digital restoration and preservation,
experimental cinema-visual art alliance in the days of
the digital Digital Cinema (DH) (OE)

Area Topics Course [Humanities
Electives (IH)/Open
Electives
(OE)/Specialization
Core/Electives (SC/SE)]
Introduction to the field of network cultures that
revolves around the interaction between new forms of
networked media technologies, its users, and the
developing discourses Network Cultures
Examine the societal structures and expectations
through which the gendered individual emerges as an
integrated physiological, psychological, and socio-
political being while locating how the postcolonial
nation state and masculine behaviours intersect in the
Global South through in-depth case studies and
analysis of policy reports as well as cultural artifacts
related to current environments, health, family,
relationships, and aging. Masculinities in/and the
Global South
Exploration of “Energy humanities” as a rapidly
emerging field of scholarship that overcomes
traditional boundaries between the humanities and
natural sciences and between academic and applied
research; highlighting the essential contributions,
insights and methods that the humanities can make
to areas of study and analysis that were once limited
and siloed within the natural sciences: with special
focus on the self-reflexive relationship between
energy, rationality modernity Energy Humanities
Psychological theories of intelligence, Social-
Emotional Intelligence, Measuring intelligence,
different basis of intelligence Theories of Intelligence
(SOI) (OE)
Study of advanced mental processes, such as
organization of knowledge, reasoning, decision-
making, language, problem solving, emotion etc. Advance Cognitive
Processes (SOI) (OE)
Modern human-machine systems, knowledge base of
engineering Psychology, human factor and
engineering Psychology Engineering Psychology
(OE)
Cognitive revolution, object perception and
recognition, mental processes related to intelligence,
memory and concept formation, higher mental
process. Cognitive Psychology (OE)
Basic of cognitive neuroscience, behavioral measures
of cognition, neural basis of mental process Introduction to Cognitive
Neuroscience (OE)
The culture concept, culture industry, media and
culture, culture in the digital age, globalization, mass
culture, popular culture, visual and material culture,
cultural preservation Introduction to Cultural
Studies
Network Concepts, Graph, Connectivity, Software
tools, NetworkX, Pajek Analysis of Social Media
Networks (DH) (OE)
Digital Environment, Application in Teaching,
Advertising, Training, Immersive Environment Digital Storytelling (DH)
(OE)

Area Topics Course [Humanities
Electives (IH)/Open
Electives
(OE)/Specialization
Core/Electives (SC/SE)]
Anthropomorphism, Multimodal Interfaces, Cognitive
aspects, Qualitative and Quantitative Evaluation. Human Factors in
Interaction Design (DH)
(OE)
S. No. Stream Courses L-T_P Credit
HSS1 (All
courses at
200 level) Literature Short stories from around the world 3-0-0 3
Regional literature in translation 3-0-0 3
Creative writing 3-0-0 3
Postcolonial Fiction 3-0-0 3
Short Fiction from India 3-0-0 3
Science Fiction 3-0-0 3
Introduction to Theatre 3-0-0 3
Short Fictions from South Asian
Diaspora 3-0-0 3
Classic Detective Fiction 3-0-0 3
HSS2 (All
courses at
300 level) Sociology,
History,
Political Science Introduction to sociology 3-0-0 3
Digital Society 3-0-0 3
Urban Sociology 3-0-0 3
Indian Society: A sociological
introduction 3-0-0 3
Youth studies 3-0-0 3
Law and Society 3-0-0 3
Sociology of Work and Industry 3-0-0 3
Development and Environment 3-0-0 3
Social Stratification 3-0-0 3
Economics,
Public Health Microeconomics 1 (AIDE-CMCE) 2-0-0 2
Microeconomics 2 (AIDE-CMCE) 2-0-0 2
* Course in HSS I-IV is available as an open elective also. 
 
 
 
 
7. Summary of Institute wide bouquet of Humanities Courses (Humanities I-4) 
 
Table 2. Area-wise HSS Courses

HSS3 (All
course at
300 level) Health Economics 3-0-0 3
Industrial Organization 3-0-0 3
Health and Development 3-0-0 3
Indian Economic Development and
Policy 3-0-0 3
Political and Institutional Economics of
Development 3-0-0 3
Foundations and Finance 3-0-0 3
Individual and Strategic Decision
Making (AIDE-CMCE) 2-0-0 2
Social and Economics Networks (AIDE-
CMCE) 2-0-0 2
Behavioral Economics and Decision
Theory (AIDE-CMCE) 2-0-0 2
HSS4 (All
courses at
400 level) Philosophy,
Policy,
governance Introduction to Philosophy 3-0-0 3
Fundamentals of logic 3-0-0 3
Critical Thinking 3-0-0 3
Cognitive Semantics 3-0-0 3
Philosophical Problems 3-0-0 3
Introduction to Indian Philosophy 3-0-0 3
Theories of justice 3-0-0 3
Gandhian Thought 3-0-0 3
Role of Technology in Development 3-0-0 3
Disasters, Risk Reduction, and
Management 3-0-0 3
Political and Cultural Ecology 3-0-0 3
S.N Courses L-T_P Credit Course level
1. Popular classics 3-0-0 3 400
2. Introduction to film studies 3-0-0 3 200
3. Dalit Movement and Literature 3-0-0 3 700
4. Cine-politics under the national emergency 3-0-0 3 700
5. Perspectives in language and literary studies (DH) 3-0-0 3 600
6. Introduction to Editing and Publishing 3-0-0 3 700
8. Open Electives 
Table 3.HSS Open Elective Courses

7. Indian Cinemas: Many Histories 3-0-0 3 700
8. Introduction to Literature from India’s Northeast 3-0-0 3 700
9. Introduction to Contemporary Arts 3-0-0 3 400
10. Introduction to Performance Studies 3-0-0 3 700
11. Modern Indian Theatre 3-0-0 3 700
12. Asian American Literature 3-0-0 3 700
13. World Literature and Global Cinema 3-0-0 3 700
14. Globalization and culture 3-0-0 3 400
15. Sociology of Science and Technology 3-0-0 3 700
16. Culture, Art and heritage 3-0-0 3 300
17. Gender and Society 3-0-0 3 700
18. Global Health 3-0-0 3 700
19. Health Policy, Systems and Financing 3-0-0 3 700
20. History and Philosophy of Science 3-0-0 3 700
21. Foundations of Sustainability 3-0-0 3 400
22. Climate change and society 3-0-0 3 700
23. Politics of water governance 3-0-0 3 700
24. Aesthetics 3-0-0 3 400
25. Bioethics 3-0-0 3 400
26. Consciousness 3-0-0 3 700
27. Principles of Psychology 3-0-0 3 300
28. Basics of Leadership 3-0-0 3 400
29. Life and Professional Skill development 3-0-0 3 400
30. Positive Psychology and Well-being 3-0-0 3 400
31. Consumer culture and commodities 3-0-0 3 700
32. Civilizations, Cultures, and Technologies (DH) 3-0-0 3 600
33. Images, Imaginations, and Digital Cultures (DH) 3-0-0 3 600
34. Fundamental of Digital Humanities (DH) 3-0-0 3 700
35. New media studies (DH) 3-0-0 3 500
36. Digital Cinema (DH) 3-0-0 3 500
37. Network Cultures 3-0-0 3 700
38. Masculinities in/and the Global South 3-0-0 3 700
39. Energy Humanities 3-0-0 3 700

40. Theories of Intelligence (SOI) 3-0-0 3 400
41. Advance Cognitive Processes (SOI) 3-0-0 3 400
42. Engineering Psychology 3-0-0 3 400
43. Cognitive Psychology 3-0-0 3 400
44. Introduction to Cognitive Neuroscience 3-0-0 3 700
45. Introduction to Cultural Studies 3-0-0 3 700
46. Analysis of Social Media Networks (DH) 3-0-0 3 700
47. Digital Storytelling (DH) 3-0-0 3 700
48. Human Factors in Interaction Design (DH) 3-0-0 3 700
49. Selected Topics in HSS -I 1-0-0 1 700
50. Selected Topics in HSS -II 2-0-0 2 700
51. Selected Topics in HSS - III 3-0-0 3 700
S.N. Name of
Specialization Minor Core
(8 credits) Topics Minor Elective
(12 Credits) Topics
1 Performing
and Creative
Arts Introduction
to
Contemporar
y Arts (3
credits, 400
level, 3-0-0,
Core)
Approved Introduction to
visual arts, Art
history and
major art
movements in
Europe (from
classical to
modern),
Histories of
ancient and
medieval Indian
art, Renaissance
perspective and
Indian
resistance,
Major Indian
artists and art
groups, visual
art,
experimental
cinema,
installation art,
new modes of
exhibition Indian Theatre
(3 credits, 600
level, 3-0-0,
Elective) Natyashastra, Sanskrit
drama, classical
theatre,colonial theatre,
folk performance
traditions, Tagorean
drama, Postcolonial
theatre, Indian theatre in
the 1960s, Third Theatre
Introduction
to
Performance
Studies (3 Introduction to
performance,
performance
theories,
9. Minor to be offered by the department of HSS 
 Table 4. Specialization and courses

credits, 400
level, 3-0-0,
Core)
Approved performance
history through
the ages,
classical drama,
Renaissance
drama,
dramaturgy,
playgoing
cultures, theatre
movements and
modernism,
acting styles,
absurd theatre,
theatre-cinema
interface,
classical Indian
theatre, Indian
theatre in
colonial and
postcolonial
times
Modern Indian
Theatre (3
credits, 700
level, 3-0-0,
Elective)
Approved Post-Independence
theatre and institutional
histories, urban/folk,
theatre in the long
1960s, major
playwrights and select
plays, production
histories, film adaptation
of theatrical texts,
political theatre, third
theatre, theatre after
globalization
Project I (3
credits, 600
level, 0-0-6,
Elective) Methodology workshop,
selection of topics and
areas, discussion
sessions, final
submission
Minor Program (Performing and Creative Arts) 
Philosophy: The minor program on Performing and Creative Arts introduces students to theatre and 
performance, classical music, visual and audio-visual art practices (photography, film, installation) in 
order to explore the creative potential that the students may have and also to engage actively with 
Indian traditions in these domains. It is also interested in nurturing and developing the aesthetic 
sensibilities of the students that may help them in sharpening their skills for appreciating art and also 
in finding alternative career options. 
 
Innovative Components: Some of the courses will have tutorials and practical sessions, workshops 
etc. and resource persons from various art and culture industries will be invited for the latter. There 
will be interactive sessions between resource persons and students. By the end of the program, there 
will be two elective project courses and students will be allowed to choose any of the three areas 
(visual arts, theatre and performance, classical music) for their respective projects.

Objectives
a. Nurturing and developing the aesthetic sensibilities of students 
b. Exploring the creative potential of students 
c. Encouraging students in exploring alternative career options 
d. Introducing students to Indian traditions in the spheres of art
Learning Outcomes: At the completion of this minor, students are expected to have the ability to:
a. Have a basic grasp over performance and art histories/theories in India and abroad 
b. Develop familiarity with modern/contemporary and traditional/classical art forms 
c. Develop acquaintance with Indian art practices and traditions 
d. Develop adequate aesthetic sensibilities to appreciate art 
e. Find suitable methods for indulging in artistic practices of their choice

10. Detailed Course Content
of
Institute Level Humanities Bouquets

Title Communication Skill I Number HSN 1010
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 0-0-1 [1]
Offered for UG Type Compulsory
Prerequisite None
Institute vide Core Courses:

Grammar &Composition. Revised by N.D.V. Prasad Rao.S.Chand Publishing Blackie.ELT 
Books, New Delhi: India.
4. Hewings, Martin (2008) Advanced Grammar in Use. Cambridge University Press.
Online Course Material 
1. Iqbal, Ayesha.English Language for Competitive Examinations.NPTEL Course Material, 
Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology-Madras, 
https://nptel.ac.in/courses/109106116/ 
2. Choudhary, Shreesh. Better Spoken English. NPTEL Course Material, Department of 
Humanities 
and 
Social 
Sciences, 
Indian 
Institute 
of 
Technology-Madras,

Title Communication Skill (II) Number HSN 1020
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 0-0-1 [1]
Offered for UG Type Compulsory
Prerequisite None

Title Professional Ethics I Number HSN3010
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 0-0-1[1]
Offered for UG Type Compulsory
Prerequisite None

Title Professional Ethics II Number HSN3020
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 0-0-2[1]
Offered for UG Type Compulsory
Prerequisite None

Institute Level Humanities Bouquets

Course title Description Course no.
Short stories from around the world Course content HSL2XXX
Regional literature in translation Course content HSL2XXX
Creative writing Course content HSL2XXX
Postcolonial fiction Course content HSL2XXX
Short stories from India Course content HSL2XXX
Science fiction Course content HSL2XXX
Introduction to Theatre Course content HSL2XXX
Short Fictions from South Asian Diaspora Course content HSL2XXX
Classic Detective Fiction Course content HSL2XXX
Course title Description Course no.
Introduction to sociology Course content HS455
Digital societies Course content HSL4XXX
Urban sociology Course content HSL4XXX
Indian societies: A sociological introduction Course content HSL3070
Youth studies Course content HSL4XXX
Law and society Course content HSL4XXX
Sociology of work and industry Course content HSL4XXX
Development and Environment Course content HSL3060
Social Stratification Course content HSL4XXX
Course title Description Course no.
Microeconomics I (AIDE-CMCE) Course content AIL4010
Microeconomics II (AIDE-CMCE) Course content AIL4XXX
Health economics Course content HSL4070
Industrial Organization Course content HSL7XXX
Health and Development Course content HSL4XXX

Indian Economic Development and Policy Course content HSL7XXX
Political and Institutional Economics of
Development Course content HSL7460
Foundations and Finance Course content HSL4XXX
Individual and Strategic Decision Making (AIDE-
CMCE) Course content AIL4XXX
Social and Economics Networks (AIDE-CMCE) Course content AIL7XXX
Behavioral Economics and Decision Theory (AIDE-
CMCE) Course content AIL7XXX
Course title Description Course no.
Introduction to philosophy Course content HSL4XXX
Fundamentals of logic Course content HSL4010
Critical thinking Course content HSL4XXX
Cognitive semantics Course content 32209/HSL4XXX
Philosophical problems Course content HSL4020
Introduction to Indian philosophy Course content HSL4XXX
Theories of justice Course content HSL4XXX
Gandhian Thought Course content HSL4XXX
Role of technology in development Course content HS421/HSL4XXX
Disaster, risk reduction and management Course content HSL4030
Political and Cultural Ecology Course content HSL4XXX

Title Short stories from around the World Number HSL2xx0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None
HSS-I Literature

Title Regional Literature in Translation Number HSL2xx0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Creative Writing Number HSL 2xx0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Postcolonial Fiction Number HSL2xx0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Short fiction from India Number HSL2xx0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Science Fiction Number HSL2xx0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Introduction to Theatre Number HSL2xx0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Short fiction from South Asian Diaspora Number HSL2xx0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

8. Hua, Anh. “Diaspora and Cultural Memory.” Diaspora, Memory and Identity: A Search for
Home, edited by Vijay Agnew, University of Toronto Press, 2005, pp. 191–208.
9. Mishra, Sudesh. “From Sugar to Masala: Writing by the Indian Diaspora.” An Illustrated
History of Indian Literature in English, edited by Arvind Krishna Mehrotra, Permanent Black, 
2003, pp. 276–294.
10. Mishra, Vijay. “The Diasporic Imaginary: Theorizing the Indian Diaspora.” Textual Practice,
11. Chatterji, Joya and David Washbrook. Routledge Handbook of the South Asian Diaspora.
London and New York: Routledge, 2013.
Online Course Material
1. Chattopadhyay, Sayan., Lecture 16: Diasporic Literature. NPTEL Course Material, Department
of Humanities and Social Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur,

Title Classic Detective Fiction Number HSL2xx0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

10. Scott, Sutherland. Blood in their Ink: The March of the Modern Mystery Novel. London: Stanley
Paul & Co., 1953.
11. Stewart, R.F. And always a detective: Chapters on the history of Detective fiction. Newton
Abbot & North Pomfret: David and Charles, 1980.
12. Symons, Julian. Bloody Murder: From the Detective Story to the Crime novel: A History.
Online Resources: 
Prof. Andrew King. Introduction to Detective Fiction, Part 1 to 3. University of Greenwich. 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_AWsWYBY6Ec&t=124s.

Course Title Introduction to Sociology Course No. HS455
Department HSS Structure (L-T-P-C) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Pre-requisite None
HSS - II Sociology, History, Political Science

Title Digital Society Number HSL4XX0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Urban Sociology Number HSL 4xx0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Indian Society: A Sociological Introduction Number HSL3070
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

1. Mallick, S., and Das, L., Indian Society: Issues and Problems. Department of Humanities &
Social 
Sciences, 
Indian 
Institute 
of 
Technology, 
Guwahati

Title Youth Studies Number HSL 4xx0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Law and Society Number HSL 4xx0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Sociology of Work and
Industry Number HSL 4xx0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Development and Environment Number HSL3060
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Social Stratification Number HSL 4xx0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Microeconomics-1 Number AIL4010
Department AIDE (CMCE) L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B. Tech. Type Core for minor, Elective for all others
Prerequisite None
HSS - III Economics, Public Health

Title Microeconomics-2 Number AIL4XX0
Department/School AIDE (CMCE) L-T-P
[C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B. Tech (All Branches),
P.G., Ph.D. Type Core for minor, Elective for
others
Prerequisite Microeconomics-1
equilibrium, simultaneous move games and examples, games of perfect
Game theory, Fudenberg, D., Tirole, J., MIT Press, 1991.
Advanced microeconomic theory, Jehle, G.A., Reny, P.J., Pearson, latest edition.

Title Health Economics Number HSL4070
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0[3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Industrial Organisation Number HSL7XX0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None
Anindya Sen (1996). , Oxford University Press.
Richard Schmalensee and R. Willig (1989). Handbook of Industrial Organization , vol. 1-2, 1

5. Milgrom, Paul and Roberts, John, (1982), Limit Pricing and Entry under Incomplete
Online resources:
1. Industrial 
Organisation 
1, 
MIT 
Open 
Courseware,

Title Health and Development Number HSL4XX0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Indian Economic Development
and Policy Number HS7XX
Department HSS Structure (L-T-P-C) 3-0-0
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Political and Institutional
Economics of Development Number HSL7460
Department HSS Structure L-T-P (C) 3-0-0 (3)
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None
2.Chang, H. J. (2011). Institutions and economic development: theory, policy and history. Journal
9.Gangopadhyay, S., & Santhakumar, V. (Eds.). (2013). Law and Economics: Volume I: Theory,
Volume II: Practice . SAGE Publications India.

Title Foundations of Finance Number HSL4XX0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type
Prerequisite None

Title Individual and strategic decision
making: theory and applications Number AIL4XX0
Department AIDE (CMCE) L-T-P [C] 2-0-0 [2]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Core for minor, Elective for
others
Prerequisite None
Exclusions Introduction to game theory
MAL4310

Title Social and Economic Networks Number AIL7XX0
Department/School AIDE (CMCE) L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B. Tech./PG/Ph.D. Type Elective
Prerequisite Individual and strategic decision
making: theory and applications

Title Behavioral Economics and Decision
theory Number AIL7XX0
Department/School AIDE (CMCE) L-T-P [C] 3-0-0[3]
Offered for B. Tech./P.G./Ph.D. Type Elective
Prerequisite Microeconomics-1

Title Introduction to Philosophy Number HSL4XX0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None
HSS - IV Philosophy, Policy, and Governance

Title Fundamentals of Logic Number HSL4010
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Critical Thinking Number HSL4XXX
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Cognitive Semantics Number 32209/HSL4xxx
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Philosophical Problems Number HSL4020
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Introduction to Indian Philosophy Number HSL4xx0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0[3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Theories of Justice Number HSL4xx0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0[3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Gandhian Thought Number HSL4xx0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0[3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Role of Technology in Development Number HS421/HSL4xx
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Disaster risk reduction and management Number HSL4030
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite Interest in Policy, Governance, Sustainability,
Law, Gender or Interdisciplinary/cross-
discipline
background

Title Political and Cultural Ecology Number HSL4xx0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

11. Detailed Course Content
of
Open Electives

Course title Description Course no.
Popular classics Course content HSL4XXX
Introduction to film studies Course content HSL2010
Dalit Movement and Literaturesss Course content HSL7XXX
Cine-politics under the national emergency Course content HSL7330
Perspectives in language and literary studies Course content DHL6010
Introduction to Editing and Publishing Course content HSL7XXX
Indian Cinemas: Many Histories Course content HSL7450
Introduction to Literature from India’s Northeast Course content HSL7440
Introduction to Contemporary Arts Course content HSL4XXX
Introduction to Performance Studies Course content HSL7XXX
Modern Indian Theatre Course content HSL7XXX
World Literature and Global Cinema Course content HSL7XXX
Globalization and culture Course content HSL4XXX
Sociology of Science and Technology Course content HSL7XXX
Culture, art and heritage Course content HS321
Gender and society Course content HSL7360
Global Health Course content HSL7XXX
Health Policy, Systems and Financing Course content HSL7XXX
History and philosophy of science Course content HSL7410
Foundation of sustainability Course content HSL4040
Climate change and society Course content HSL7XXX

Politics of water governance Course content HSL7420
Aesthetics Course content 32208/HSL4XXX
Bioethics Course content HSL4080
Consciousness Course content HS729
Principles of psychology Course content HSL3010
Basics of leadership Course content HS411
Life and professional skill development Course content 32205/HSL4XXX
Positive psychology and well-being Course content HSL4060
Consumer culture and commodities Course content HSL7XXX
Civilizations, Cultures, and Technologies (DH) Course content DJL6XXX
Images, Imaginations, and Digital Cultures (DH) Course content DHL6XXX
Fundamental of Digital Humanities (DH) Course content DHL7010
New media studies (DH) Course content DHL5XXX
Digital Cinema (DH) Course content DHL5XXX
Network Cultures Course content HSL7XXX
Masculinities in/and the Global South Course content HSL7XXX
Energy Humanities Course content HSL7XXX
Theories of Intelligence (SOI) (OE) Course content CG4XX
Advance Cognitive Processes (SOI) (OE) Course content CGL4010
Engineering Psychology Course content HS4XX
Cognitive Psychology Course content HS4XX
Introduction to Cognitive Neuroscience Course content HS7XX

Introduction to Cultural Studies Course content DHL7XX0
Analysis of Social Media Networks (DH) Course content DHL7XX0
Digital Storytelling Course content DHL7XX0
Human Factors in Interaction Design (DH) Course content DHL7XX0
Selected topics in HSS I Course content HSL7XX0
Selected topics in HSS II Course content HSL7XX0
Selected topics in HSS III Course content HSL7XX0

Title Popular Classics Number HS 3xx
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Introduction to Film Studies Number HSL2XXX
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Dalit Movement and Literature Number HSL7xx0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Cine-Politics under the National
Emergency Number HSL7330
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Perspectives in Language and
Literary Studies Number DHL6010
Department IDRP: DH L-T-P-D [C] 3-0-0-1 [4]
Offered for M.Sc. DH First Year only; B.Tech Electives;
B.Tech Minor in DH Type Compulsory for DH and
Elective for all others
Prerequisite None

Title Introduction to Editing and
Publishing Number HS7XX
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0[3]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None

2. Dunham, Steve. The Editor’s Companion: An Indispensable Guide to Editing Books, Magazines, 
Online Publications, and More. 2014. Blue Ash, OH: Writer’s Digest Books 
3. Guthrie, Richard. Publishing: Principles and Practice. 2011. London: Sage 
4. Truss, Lynne. Eats, Shoots & Leaves: The Zero Tolerance Approach to Punctuation. 2004. New 
York, NY: Gotham Books 
5. Greene, Robert Lane. You Are What You Speak: Grammar Grouches, Language Laws, and the 
Politics of Identity. 2011. New York, NY: Delacorte Press 
 
Online Course Materials
2. eDX course: The Book: The History of the Book in the 17th and 18th Century Europe at

Title Indian Cinemas: Many
Histories Number HSL7XX
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None

4. Prasad, M. M., (1998), Ideology of the Hindi Film: A Historical Construction, Oxford University
5. Sutoris, P., (2016), Visions of Development: Films Division of India and the Imagination of
Progress, 1948-75, Oxford University Press.
6. Rajagopalan, S., (2009), Indian Films in Soviet Cinemas: The Culture of Movie-Going after Stalin,
Indiana University Press.
7. Srinivas, S. V., (2009), Megastar: Chiranjeevi and Telugu Cinema after N. T. Rama Rao, Oxford
University Press.
8. Bhrugubanda, U. M., (2018), Deities & Devotees: Cinema, Religion, and Politics in South India,
Oxford University Press.
9. Pandian, A., (2015), Reel World: An Anthropology of Creation, Duke University Press. 
10. Jaikumar, P., (2019), Where Histories Reside: India as Filmed Space, Duke University Press.
Reference Books
1. Grieveson, L., and MacCabe, C., (eds.) (2011) Film and the End of Empire, Bloomsbury. 
2. Pandian, M. S. S., (2015), The Image Trap: M. G. Ramachandran in Film and Politics, Sage. 
3. Iyer, U., (2020), Dancing Women: Choreographing Corporeal Histories of Hindi Cinema, Oxford
University Press.
4. Govil, N. (2015), Orienting Hollywood: A Century of Film Culture between Los Angeles and
Bombay, New York University Press.
5. Sen. M., and Basu, A., (eds.) (2013), Figurations in Indian Film, Palgrave Macmillan. 
6. Sen, M., (2017), Haunting Bollywood: Gender, Genre, and the Supernatural in Hindi Commercial
Cinema, Orient Blackswan.
7. Mazumdar, R., (2007), Bombay Cinema: An Archive of the City, University of Minnesota Press. 
8. Journal articles, book chapters, unpublished dissertations of Vasudevan, Rajadhyaksha, Srinivas,
Athique, Tiwari, Mini, Radhakrishnan, Bhaumik will be provided by the instructor. 
 
Online Course Material

Title Introduction to Literatures from
India’s Northeast Number HSL7440
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0[3]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Introduction to Contemporary Arts Number HS 4XX
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None

1. Guha-Thakurta, Tapati. Monuments, Objects, Histories: Institutions of Art in Colonial and Post-
Colonial India 
2. Upjohn, Everard M, et al. History of World Art 
3. Foster,Gwendolyn Audrey and Wheeler W. Dixon. Experimental Cinema: The Film Reader 
4. Cole, Bruce and Adelheid M. Gealt. Art of the Western World: From Ancient Greece to Post 
Modernism 
 
Online Course Material
1. Asia Art Archive at: https://aaa.org.hk/en 
2. NPTEL web course titled Modern Indian Art From the Colonial Period to the Present available
3. NPTEL web course titled Visual Perception and Art: A Survey Across the Cultures available
4. NPTEL web course titled Introducing Modern Western Art: Movements and Artists available
5. NPTEL 
web 
course 
titled 
Folk 
and 
Minor 
Art 
in 
India 
available 
at:
6. NPTEL web course titled Introduction to Indian Art - An appreciation available at:
7. NPTEL 
web 
course 
titled 
Elements 
of 
Visual 
Representation 
available 
at:

Title Introduction to Performance Studies in
India Number HS 7XX
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None

2. Shivaprakash, H S. Incredible India: Traditional Theatres 
3. Lal, A. The Oxford Companion to Indian Theatre 
4. William Egginton. How the World Became a Stage: Presence, Theatricality, and the Question
of Modernity
5. Bhatia, Nandi. Acts of Authority/Acts of Resistance: Theater and Politics in Colonial and
Postcolonial India
6. Varadpande, ML. The six-volume History of Indian Theatre 
7. Panja, Shormishtha, et al. Performing Shakespeare in India: Exploring Indianness,
literatures and cultures
8. Jenon, Jisha. The Performance of Nationalism 
9. --- and Milija Gluhovic (eds.). Performing the Secular 
10. Lal, Anand. The Oxford Companion to Indian Theatre 
11. Taylor, Diana. Performance.
Online Course Material
1. NPTEL web content on drama available at: https://nptel.ac.in/courses/109/106/109106054/

Title Modern Indian Theatre Number HSL7XX
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None

by Oxford University Press, Seagull, Penguin and DVDs of film-texts will be provided by the 
instructor. 
 
Reference Book
1. 1. Lal, A., (ed.) (2004), The Oxford Companion to Indian Theatre, Oxford University Press. 
2. 2. Dalmia, V., (2006), Poetics, Plays, and Performances: The Politics of Modern Indian Theatre,
Oxford University Press.
3. 3. Ghosh, A., (2012), A History of the Jana Natya Manch: Plays for the People, Sage. 
4. 4. Katyal, A., (2012), Habib Tanvir: Towards an Inclusive Theatre, Sage. 
5. 5. Kundu, M., (2016), So Near, Yet So Far: Badal Sircar’s Third Theatre, Oxford University Press.
Online Course Material
1. 1. Introduction to Modern Indian Drama by Dr. Kiran Keshavamurthy, IIT Guwahati, at

Title Asian American Literature Number HSL7XXX
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0[3]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None

9. Kim, Elaine H. Asian American Literature: An Introduction to the Writings and their
Social Context. Temple University Press, 1982.
10. Lal, Brij V., et al. editors. The Encyclopaedia of the Indian Diaspora. Editions Didier
11. Leiwei Li, David. Imaging the Nation: Asian American Literature and Cultural Consent.
Stanford University Press, 1998.
12. Ling, Amy. Between Worlds: Women Writers of Chinese Ancestry. Pergamon, 1990. 
13. Radhakrishnan, R. Diasporic Mediations: Between Home and Location. University of
Minnesota Press, 1996.
14. Wong, Sau-Ling Cynthia. Reading Asian American Literature: From Necessity to
Extravagance. Princeton University Press, 1993. 
 
Online Course Material 
 Dr. Aysha Iqbal Viswamohan, Contemporary Literature, Department of Humanities and 
Social 
Sciences, 
IIT 
Madras, 
Lectures 
35 
to 
38.

Title World Literature and Global Cinema Number HSL7XX
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Globalization and Culture Number HSL4xx
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Sociology of Science and Technology Number HSL7XX
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Culture, Art and Heritage Course No. HS 321
Department HSS L-T-P[C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Pre-requisite None

Course Title Gender and Society Course No. HSL7360
Department HSS Structure (L-T-P-C) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Pre-requisite None

Title Global Health Number HSL 7XXX
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Health Policy, Systems, and Financing Number HSL7XXX
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0[3]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title History and Philosophy of Science Number HSL7410
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Foundations of Sustainability Number HSL4040
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Climate Change and Society Number HS 7xx
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None

9. Scott, S., and Slovic, P (eds.) (2015), Numbers and Nerves: Information, Emotion, and Meaning in 
a World of Data. Oregon State UP, www.arithmeticofcompassion.org 
10.Ghosh, A., (2016), The Great Derangement: Climate Change and the Unthinkable. Penguin Books. 
11.Narain, S., (2017), Conflicts of Interest: My journey through India’s Green Movement, 
 
Penguin.
12. Rangarajan, S., (2018), Ecocriticism: Big Ideas and Practical Strategies. OrientBlackswan. 
13. Roy, S., (2018), We’re Doomed. Now What? Essays on War and Climate Change, Soho. 
14. Jaquette Ray, S., (2020), A Field Guide to Climate Anxiety. University of California Press. 
15. Discussion Papers, Research Reports and Policy Briefs from IPCC, The World Bank, UNDP. 
 
Online Course Material 
1. Kipgen, G., Ecology and Society, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences Indian Institute of 
Technology, Guwahati. https://nptel.ac.in/courses/109103123 
2. 
 
Climate 
Change 
Online 
Learning, 
Open 
learning 
campus, 
The 
World 
Bank.

Title Politics of Water Governance Number HSL7420
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None

7. Shah, M., and Vijayshankar, P.S., (2016), Water: Growing Understanding, Emerging
Perspectives (Readings on the Economy, Polity and Society), Orient BlackSwan.
Wesselink, A., (2017), Engaging with the politics of water governance. Wires Water, 4(6).
9. Boelens, R., and Perreault, Vos, J., (2018), Water Justice, Cambridge University Press. 
Online Course Material 
1. Mukherjee, J., Water, Society and Sustainability. Department of Humanities & Social
Sciences, 
Indian 
Institute 
of 
Technology, 
Kharagpur,

Title Aesthetics Number 32208
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None
Existentialist Perspectives : Nietzsche, the ‘genius’ and creativity; Life: the ‘absurd’ and human
Aesthetics of Design : The Methodology, Functionality and Aesthetics: the importance of design;

Title Bioethics Number HSL4080
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Consciousness Number HS729
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Principles of Psychology Number HSL3010
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Basics of Leadership Number HS411
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Life and Professional Skill Development Number 32205
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Positive Psychology and Well-being Number HSL4060
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Consumer Culture and Commodities Number HS 7xx
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Civilizations, Cultures, and
Technologies Number DHL6XX0
Department IDRP: DH L-T-P [C] 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for M.Sc. DH First Year only;
B.Tech Electives; B.Tech Minor
in DH Type Compulsory for DH and
Elective for all others
Prerequisite None

Title Images, Imaginations, and
Digital Cultures Number DHL6XX0
Department IDRP: DH L-T-P-D [C] 3–0–0-0 [3]
Offered for M.Sc., M.Tech, B.Tech Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Fundamentals of Digital Humanities Number DHL7010
Department IDRP-DH L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech. (Cr>=100); M.Sc. (Cr >=30);
M.Tech. (Cr.>0); Ph.D. (Cr.>0) Type Elective
Prerequisite None

1. Ethnographic data collection and analysis: A case study 
2. Ontology formation from Multimedia Data: A case study
References Books
1. Christopher Joseph Jenks (2011), Transcribing Talk and Interaction: Issues in the
Representation of Communication Data, John Benjamins Publishing Company.
2. Russel, S. & Norvig, P., (2009), Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach, Pearson Education 
3. S. Chaudhury, A. Mallik, and H. Ghogh (2016), Multimedia Ontology Representation and
Applications, CRC Press.
Online-Course Materials
1. Knowledge Representation and Reasoning
Fractal 3: Digital Archives (DHL7013)
Digital memory, Methods of archiving, Theorizing the archive, database [6 lectures] 
Exhibition, installation, audio-visual essays [4 lectures] 
Aesthetics of recreation/ Digital aesthetics, Digital Art [4 lectures]
References Books
1. Ernst, W., (2013), Digital Memory and the Archive, Minneapolis: University of Minnesota
Press
2. Grau, O., Coones, W., and Ruhse, V. (Eds.) (2017), Museum and Archive on the Move:
Changing Cultural Institutions in the Digital Era, Berlin and Boston: De Gruyter
Online-course material

Title New Media Studies Number DHL5XX0
Department IDRP: DH L-T-P [C] 3–0–2 [4]
Offered for All M. Tech and PhD students
<Shall also be considered for
B.Tech Students> Type M.Sc. DH First Year
Compulsory, Elective for all
others
Prerequisite None

Title Digital Cinema Number DHL5XX0
Department IDRP: DH L-T-P [C] 3–0–2 [4]
Offered for All M. Tech and PhD students
<Shall also be considered for
B.Tech Students> Type M.Sc. DH First Year
Compulsory, Elective for all
others
Prerequisite None

Title Network Cultures Number HSL 7xx
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None

A curated course artifact with all the study material will be given to the students. 
 
Reference Books 
Galloway, A. R. (2006). Protocol: how control exists after decentralization. The MIT Press. 
Lovink, G. (2013). Networks without a cause: a critique of social media. Polity Press. 
Kitchin, R. (2021). Data lives: how data are made and shape our world. Bristol University Press. 
 
Online Material 
 https://networkcultures.org/publications/

Title Masculinities in/and the Global
South Number HSL 7xx
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Reference Books 
Connell, R. W. (2009). Masculinities. Polity Press. 
Dasgupta, R. K. (2014). Masculinity and its challenges in India: essays on changing perceptions. 
Foucault, M. (2020). The history of sexuality. Penguin Classics. 
Halberstam, J. (2018). Female masculinity. Duke University Press. 
Kimmel, M. (2018). Guyland the perilous world where boys become men. Harper Perennial. 
McKenzie, J. (2008). Perform or else: from discipline to performance. Routledge. 
Mohanty, C. T. (2007). Feminism without borders: decolonizing theory, practicing solidarity. Point 
Par Point. 
Sinha, M. (1997). Colonial masculinity: the "manly Englishman" and the "effeminate Bengali" in the 
late nineteenth century. Kali for Women. 
 
Online Material 
TillotomaProductions.(2015).-Mardistan/Macholand. 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tSrGuXTEHsk. 
Media Education Foundation. (1999). Tough Guise. USA.

Title Energy Humanities Number HSL7XX
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Prakash, G. (1999). Another reason: science and the imagination of modern India. Princeton
University Press.
Sieferle, R. P. (2010). The subterranean forest energy systems and the Industrial Revolution. White
Huber, M. T. (2013). Lifeblood: oil, freedom, and the forces of capital. University of Minnesota Press. 
Harding, S. G. (Ed.). (2011). The Postcolonial Science and Technology studies reader. Duke
University Press.
Szeman, I., & Boyer, D. (Eds.). (2017). Energy humanities: an anthology. Johns Hopkins University
Allen, R. C. (2018). The British industrial revolution in global perspective. Cambridge University
Mukherjee, R. (2020). Radiant infrastructures: media, environment, and cultures of uncertainty.
Duke University Press.
Mišík Matúš, and Kujundžić Nada (Eds.). (2021). Energy humanities: current state and future
Online Course Material 
1. 
Carnegie 
Mellon 
University: 
The 
Imperative 
of 
Energy 
Humanities

Course Title Theories of Intelligence Course No. CG4xx
Department Science of Intelligence Structure (L-T-P 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Course Title Advanced Cognitive Processes Course No. CG4xx
Department Science of Intelligence L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Course Title Engineering Psychology Course No. HS 4XX
Department HSS Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Course Title Cognitive Psychology Course No. HS 7XX
Department HSS Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None
automaticity , consciousness, awareness
Module 3: Human and Artificial Intelligence, memory, visual and spatial memory, memory of
3. Sternberg, R. J., Sternberg, K.,(2012). Cognitive psychology. Cengage Learning Press.

Course Title Introduction to Cognitive Course No. HS 7XX
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None

sssCourse
Title Introduction to Cultural Studies Course No. DHL7XX0
Department IDRP-DH Structure (L-T-P-D 3-0-0-0 [3]
Offered for Ph.D. (Cr>=0); M.Sc. (Cr >=30); M.Tech.
(Cr>=0); B.Tech. (Cr>=100) Type Elective
Prerequisite None
1. Teach cultural studies as an interdisciplinary field which draws from and contributes to
2. Equip students with methods and frameworks to look at the central preoccupations of the
3. Critically interrogate the benefits of cultural studies for both inter- and intra-disciplinary

Course Title Analysis of Social Media
Networks Course No. DHL7XX0
Department IDRP-DH L-T-P [C] 3-0-0 [3]
Offered for Ph.D. (Cr>=0); M.Sc. (Cr >=30);
M.Tech. (Cr>=0);
B.Tech. (Cr>=100) Type Elective
Prerequisite None Anti-requisite Social Networks, Social
Network Analysis

Course Title Digital Storytelling Course No. DHL7XX0
Department IDRP-DH Structure (L-T-P-
D [C]) 3-0-0-0
[3]
Offered for Ph.D. (Cr>=0); M.Sc. (Cr >=30); M.Tech.
(Cr>=0); B.Tech. (Cr>=100) Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Course Title Human Factors in Interaction Design Course No. DHL7XX0
Department IDRP-DH Structure (L-T-P-
D [C]) 3-0-0-0
[3]
Offered for Ph.D. (Cr>=0); M.Sc. (Cr >=30); M.Tech.
(Cr>=0); B.Tech. (Cr>=100) Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Selected Topics in HSS - I Number HSL7XX0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 1–0–0 [1]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Selected Topics in HSS - II Number HSL7XX0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 2–0–0 [2]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None

Title Selected Topics in HSS - III Number HSL7XX0
Department HSS L-T-P [C] 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for UG and PhD Type Elective
Prerequisite None