SOURCE_PDF: 1f2880aa132b_Advt-MDes-Smart-Product-Design-AY-202627-639078027810659176.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur 342030, INDIA
Admission to two-year M.Des. in Smart Product Design, AY 2026-27
IIT Jodhpur invites applications for admission to the M.Des. program in Smart 
Product Design offered by the School of Design for the semester commencing from 
July 2026.
Overview: The world around us is undergoing a dramatic transformation. We are 
increasingly interconnected, with a growing number of everyday products evolving 
into intelligent companions. The MDes in Smart Product Design is crafted to meet 
the growing demand for professionals who can create innovative, user-centric 
products that harness the power of smart technology. This program is designed to 
bridge the gap between cutting-edge technologies, user experience (UX) principles, 
and design methodology. We aim to delve into the world of smart products, from 
connected devices to AI-powered systems, learning to design seamless interactions 
that not only leverage technology's power but also enrich people's lives.
This program is ideal for aspiring designers who are passionate about innovation 
and eager to push the boundaries of physical and digital experiences. As the world 
embraces smart technology, the demand for skilled designers who can create 
user-centered, intuitive, and intelligent products is skyrocketing. The MDes in Smart 
Product Design will prepare future designers to be leaders in this dynamic field, 
shaping the future of how we interact with the world around us. All details about the 
program can be seen here: https://iitj.ac.in/school-of-design/
The M.Des. in Smart Product Design program offers the following categories of 
seats.
(a)​ Full time regular with fellowship
The full-time regular seats are filled based on the following process:
1.​ Candidates will be shortlisted based on a shortlist score derived from the
candidate’s CEED score and Portfolio submitted along with the 
application.
2.​ Shortlisted candidates will be called for the studio test and personal
interview. The studio test and interview will assess the candidate’s design 
aptitude, problem-solving skills, and creativity. The final selection will be 
based on the CEED score, portfolio, studio test and interview. Not 
appearing for the studio test and interview would lead to disqualification.

Content Number of Slides/Pages
Title Slide (Name and Application
Number) 1
Best Project 1 4
Best Project 2 4
Sample Sketches 1
3.​ The category distribution of these seats will be as per government
(b)​ Self Sponsored
The self-sponsored seats are filled based on the following process:
1.​ Candidates will be shortlisted based on a shortlist score derived from the
candidate’s Portfolio submitted along with the application.
2.​ Shortlisted candidates will be called for the studio test and personal
interview. The studio test and interview will assess the candidate’s design 
aptitude, problem-solving skills, and creativity. The final selection will be 
based on the portfolio, studio test and interview. Not appearing for the 
studio test and interview would lead to disqualification.
Seats: Students can apply for full-time regular with fellowship (if they have a valid 
CEED 2026 score) or self-sponsored seats, or both. The program has 30 seats - 15 
in the full-time regular with fellowship category, and 15 in the self-sponsored 
category. Candidates who wish to apply under both seat categories (full-time regular 
with fellowship and self-sponsored) must create a separate login in the ERP system 
using a different email ID and then apply for the second category.
Faculty: Some of the best minds in the country have contributed to the creation of 
the industry-ready program. The faculty members from across the country who will 
be mentoring the students are listed here: 
https://iitj.ac.in/school-of-design/faculty.php
A. APPLICATION PROCEDURE
Application link: Candidates are requested to use the following link to fill out and 
submit the application form online: ERP Application Link
Submission of Portfolio:
●​ Upload the Portfolio (as a single 11-page PDF file, less than 10 MB) after
filling out the IITJ application form in ERP.
●​ The Portfolio must have the following content:

Skills (Sculpting, CAD modeling,
Weaving, Model making, Painting,
Digital Sketching, Rendering,
Photography, etc.) 1
Total Slides/Pages 11
Application dates:
For full-time regular with fellowship and self-sponsored seats, admission to the First 
Semester of the AY 2026-2027 commencing in July 2026, the online link will remain 
active till 21st April 2026.
Application Processing Fees:
The application processing fee applies to each program selected. Candidates 
belonging to GEN-UR, GEN-EWS, and OBC categories are required to pay a 
processing fee of Rs. 300 (for each program) online, while SC, ST, and PD 
candidates need to pay Rs. 150 (for each program) during the submission of their 
application forms.
●​ Candidates applying for multiple programs (XR and Smart Product Design) under
the same admission category (full-time regular with fellowship or self-sponsored) 
can use a single application form in ERP for both programs.
●​ Candidates should select both XR Design and Smart Product Design only if they
are interested in applying for both programs.
●​ In the ERP application form, under the dropdown labeled "Preference of
Disciplinary Major/Centre/School/Course," candidates can select either XR 
Design or Smart Product Design as Option 1. If they wish to apply for both 
programs, they can select the second program under Option 2. Please note that 
the term "Preference" in this context does not indicate any ranking or priority. The 
order in which you select the programs will have no impact on the evaluation, 
admission process, or final offer.
●​ Candidates who wish to apply under both categories (full-time regular with
fellowship and self-sponsored) must create a separate login in the ERP system 
using a different email ID and then apply for the second category.
Queries
In case of any technical query with respect to the online application, candidates may 
contact the ERP Team (erp@iitj.ac.in).

General queries may be directed - between 10.00 a.m. and 5.00 p.m. on working 
days - to the following: 
Office of School of Design, Phone Number: 0291-280-1782 
Email: office_design@iitj.ac.in
A step-by-step guide to the application process in the ERP portal is available here: 
How to Apply through the ERP Portal
B. ELIGIBILITY FOR ADMISSION
1.​ A valid CEED scorecard (mandatory only for full-time regulars with fellowship
2.​ The applicant must have a bachelor's degree (program duration: 4 years or
more) OR Professional Diploma in Design: 10+2+4 years (minimum 4-year 
diploma program OR Master’s Degree, or an equivalent degree as decided by IIT 
Jodhpur.
3.​ A minimum of 60% marks in the qualifying degree for GEN/OBC (55% for
SC/ST/PD) category in aggregate or as specified by the university/institute or a 
minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN/OBC (5.5 for SC/ST/PD) category on the scale of 
10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other 
than on 10 (for example 4.8 for GEN/OBC category, 4.4 for SC/ST/PD on a scale 
of 8), or a first-class as specified by the university/institute.
C. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AND AWARDS
1.​ All full-time regular students eligible for assistantship/fellowship may be
eligible for a monthly stipend as per MoE notified rate in return for 8 hours 
of work per week of Teaching or Research Assistantships as per the 
Institute norms amended from time to time.
2.​ All students can be considered for various school and institute support in
the form of awards, grants, etc as per the Institute norms amended from 
time to time.
D. RESERVATION POLICY
The norms of reservation for different categories shall be adopted as laid down by the 
Ministry of Education, Government of India.
E. TOTAL SEATS
The program will admit a total of 30 students - 15 in the full-time regular with 
fellowship and 15 in the self-sponsored categories. After three rounds of seat 
allotment, if any seats remain unfilled, they will be filled through spot admission.

Last Date for Submission of online application
(full-time regular and self-sponsored) 21 April 2026
Studio test and interview May 18 to May 23, 2026
Declaration of merit list and offer of admission -
First round May 27, 2026,
Wednesday
Fees payment and confirmation of admission -
First round June 02, 2026, Tuesday
Declaration of merit list and offer of admission -
subsequent rounds June 04, 2026, Thursday
Spot admission (If any seats remain vacant) Dates to be announced
Academics Registration and Physical Reporting
to Campus As per Academic
Calendar of AY 2026-27.
F. ACCOMMODATION : Admitted students under various categories may be 
provided with institute hostel accommodation, subject to availability.
G. IMPORTANT DATES
H. IMPORTANT NOTE ON ELIGIBILITY AND ADMISSION CANCELLATION 
 
IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to immediately cancel the admission of any 
candidate at any stage of the admission process or at any stage of the program, if 
it is found that the candidate does not fulfill the prescribed eligibility criteria as per 
the official advertisement or the candidate has provided incorrect/incomplete 
information in the Application Form. The decision of the Institute in such matters 
will be final and will be binding on the candidates. All legal matters shall be subject 
to the jurisdiction of the Competent Court and Forum in Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India 
only.