SOURCE_PDF: 20aee12ba312_2024-08-27-66cd6cde6e6eb-1724738782.pdf

1. Prof. Mitali Mukerji, Deptt. of BSBE Chairperson
2. Dr. Debanjan Guha Roy, PIC, IITJ Connect Vice - chairperson
3. Dr. Santosh Mogurampelly, Associate Professor, Deptt. of Physics Member
4. Dr. Nitin Bhatia, Associate Professor, Deptt. of EE & Hindi Officer Member
5. Dr. Venkatesha Murthy R, Associate Professor, SME Member
6. Dr. Abir Bhattacharya, Associate Professor, Deptt. of MM&E Member
7. Dr. Dilpreet Kaur, Associate Professor, Deptt. of Maths Member
8. Dr. Gandhi Saurabh Raiendra, Assistant Professor, SAIDE Member
9. Dr. Akolekar Harshal Deepak, Assistant Professor, Deptt. of ME Member
10. Dr. Malvala Pavana Ravi Sai Kiran, Assistant Professor, Deptt. of EE Member
11. Dr. Angshuman Paul, Assistant Professor, Deptt of CS&E Member
12. Dr. Mayank Suman, Assistant Professor, Deptt. of C&IE Member
13. Dr. Akanksha Choudhary, Assistant Professor, SoLA Member
14. Dr. Kanak Yadav, Assistant Professor, SoLA Member
15. Dr. Suresh Sarkar, Assistant Professor, Deptt. of Chemistry Member
16. Dr. [itesh Mohnot, Assistant Professor, SME Member
17. Dr. Gaurav Vinodrao Vaidya, Assistant Professor, School of Design Member
18. Dr. Kshema Prakash, Deputy Librarian Member - Convener
19. Sh. Chunni Chhatwani, Assistant Librarian Assistant Member - Convener
20. Sh. Ashwani Kumar Gupta, Technical Communications Manager Assistant Member - Convener
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Dated: 23rd August 2024
Subject:
Institute Publication Committee
~~~ 12 (2) (xiv) ~(fWf#~~CfiTwWTcn@~; ~~;r PlqRifuid ~~~CfiT
Tf&fM%:
In exercise of powers vested upon him vide Statute 12 (2) (xiv) of the Institute; the Competent Authority
has constituted the following Institute Publication Committee:
Further, to assist in the execution of the work of the IPe, a Working Group shall function (as per Annexure) under the
overall guidance of the Committee.
Terms of Reference:
1. Publication of Science & Education Journal ofIIT Jodhpur- TechScape - 3 issues per year and Khamma Ghani (~
qaft) - 4 issues per year;
2. Annual Report of the Institute, IITJ: At a Glance (Institute Booklet), Convocation Booklets containing Director's
Report, Speeches of Chief Guest, Guest of Honour, Chairperson-BoG, etc.;
3. Other Publications of the Institute; and
4. The Member - Convener and Assistant Member - Convener(s) should be responsible for scheduled release of
Institute Publications under the guidance of the Publication Committee.
. Frequency of meeting: As and when required.
Tenure: 1st September 2024 to 31St August 2025
This issues in suppression ofearlier Order(s)
The Hindi version will follow .

1.
Chairperson, Vice-chairperson and all Members of the Committee and Working Group.
Copy to -for kind information
1. Director
2. Advisor to the Director
3. All Deans/ Professor-in-charge(s)/ Associate Dean/ Head of Deptt. /Centers/Schools/Division
4. All Faculty Members
5. All Staff Members
6. All Students
7. Webmaster for uploading in the INTRANET of the Institute's website

Annexure
.
IPC WorkingGroup
Mr. Ashwani Kumar Gupta (TechnicalCommunications Manager)
1.
Reviewing the received articles forTechScape; and datal information for Annual Report and for other publications
brought out by the IPC,from time to time;
2.
Language and Format Editing & Pre-proof Reading;
3· Coordinating with DCD for design options for various publications;
4· Liaising with IPCfor their final proof-reading/ advise/ guidance/ concurrence in coordination with Mr. Chhatwani;
5. Sharing final content with the DCD for designing;
6. Sharing final designed file with the IPC for their inputs/ approval;
7. Sharing final document with the Office of Publications, for printing arrangements; and
8. Any other work assigned by the Vice Chairperson and Chairperson of IPC, from time to time.
Ms.ShubhamArora (OCO, Office of PRG) / Ms.Shikha Parashar (OCO)
1.
Designing the covers and inside layout for the following publications of IPC:
(i)
TechScape: Science, Technology and Education Journal of liT Jodhpur - 3 issues per year
(ii)
IITJ: At a Glance (institute Booklet)
(iii) Annual Report of the Institute
(iv) Convocation Booklets containing Director's Report, Speeches of Chief Guest, Guest of Honour, Chairperson-
BoG, etc.
(v)
Khamma Ghani ~<lUft) - 4 issues per year
(vi) Other Publications of the Institute, as directed by the IPC, from time to time
2.
Designing posters and announcements for IPCrequirements; and
3. Any other work assigned by the Vice Chairperson and Chairperson of IPC, from time to time.
Mr. C. Chhatwani (Assistant Librarian)
1.
Assisting the Convener in convening meetings from time to time and recording the minutes;
2.
Assisting the Branch Officer, Office of Publications, in managing the Annual Budget and Expenditure;
3· Coordinating with the stakeholders and information sources for all publications brought out by the IPC;
4· Collating received information, checking and compiling Status Sheet, sharing with the IPC for their inputs;
5· Managing the dissemination of Institute Publications in a timely and effective manner;
6. Sending information of publications to Institute Social Media Team for its broader dissemination; and
7. Any other work assigned by the Vice Chairperson and Chairperson of IPC,from time to time.
Mr. Rinkesh Kumar Mangal(Technical Superintendent)
1.
Coordinate printing and display of TechScape Article Submission Invitation/ Bioscope Submission Invitation
posters in different buildings in the Institute;
2.
Receiving final print-ready file from TCM and sending to the printing firm;
3· Liaison and coordination with the printing firm;
4· Receiving and Distributing TechScape (Print & Electronic Copies), Annual Report, and other publications brought
out by the IPC;
5. Managing copies of all Institute Publications for distribution/ supply-on-demand;
6. Managing paperwork/ records/ files, and payment process of Office of Publications; and
7. Any other work assigned by the Vice Chairperson and Chairperson of IPC,from time to time.
Mr. AtulKumar Pal (Sr. Lib. Inf.Asst.)
1.
Hosting and managing all Institute Publications in digital format on the publications server;
2.
Managing the Institute Publications website; and
3· Any other work assigned by the Vice Chairperson and Chairperson of IPC, from time to time.