SOURCE_URL: https://iitj.ac.in/Office-of-Academics/en/M.Sc-in-Chemistry

Introduction Chemistry involves the study of substances, their properties, structures, reactions and transformations. Chemistry is interlinked with various scientific disciplines and play an important role in our daily life.  It broadly covers various areas including medicinal chemistry, analytical chemistry, organometallic chemistry, polymer chemistry, quantum chemistry, catalysis and many aspects of materials science. In the modern society, knowledge of Chemistry is essential for addressing most of the real-life challenges related to water, energy, food, agriculture, security and healthcare. Objective of the Programme The major objective of the program is to bring out professionals having fundamental knowledge, and specific skill sets of various aspects of chemistry such as Organic Reactions and their Mechanism, Main-Group and Transition Metals, Organometallics and Catalysis, Physical and Spectroscopic techniques, Inorganic and Solid State Material synthesis, Computational and Theoretical Chemistry. The department focuses on preparing future students to take up challenges at various levels of academics, R&Ds and industries. Expected Graduate Attributes Capability to appreciate synthetic methods for development of important chemical products such as pharmaceutical drugs, paints, petrochemicals, food additives, plastics etc. Ability to use characterization tools for analysing reactions and monitoring chemical processes for product development Ability to handle analytical, spectroscopic, microscopic and other instrumental methods for interdisciplinary research areas. Use of computational tools to understand and analyse chemical and biophysical processes, molecular structures and advanced materials. Ability to comprehend, write and present scientific articles and technical reports. Develop oral and written communication skills. Appreciation and adherence to norms of professional ethics and sense of intellectual integrity. Ability to plan and manage technical research projects and work in a team. Learning Outcome Strong fundamentals in theoretical and practical aspects of organic, inorganic and physical chemistry. Develop appreciation of hands-on wet chemistry, analytical, instrumentation, and experimental data handling skills to solve scientific problems to address technological challenges in various domains. Knowledge of computational and theoretical chemistry. Skills for material synthesis and processes for device integration. Develop the ability to exercise independent learning, thinking and problem solving skills. Develop the ability to interact in a cross-cultural environment and acquire time and project management skills for carrying out guided research work in any of the research area related to science and technology. Develop skills to communicate scientific learning and present ideas.
Chemistry involves the study of substances, their properties, structures, reactions and transformations. Chemistry is interlinked with various scientific disciplines and play an important role in our daily life.  It broadly covers various areas including medicinal chemistry, analytical chemistry, organometallic chemistry, polymer chemistry, quantum chemistry, catalysis and many aspects of materials science. In the modern society, knowledge of Chemistry is essential for addressing most of the real-life challenges related to water, energy, food, agriculture, security and healthcare.
Objective of the Programme
The major objective of the program is to bring out professionals having fundamental knowledge, and specific skill sets of various aspects of chemistry such as Organic Reactions and their Mechanism, Main-Group and Transition Metals, Organometallics and Catalysis, Physical and Spectroscopic techniques, Inorganic and Solid State Material synthesis, Computational and Theoretical Chemistry.
The department focuses on preparing future students to take up challenges at various levels of academics, R&Ds and industries.
Expected Graduate Attributes
Capability to appreciate synthetic methods for development of important chemical products such as pharmaceutical drugs, paints, petrochemicals, food additives, plastics etc.
Ability to use characterization tools for analysing reactions and monitoring chemical processes for product development
Ability to handle analytical, spectroscopic, microscopic and other instrumental methods for interdisciplinary research areas.
Use of computational tools to understand and analyse chemical and biophysical processes, molecular structures and advanced materials.
Ability to comprehend, write and present scientific articles and technical reports.
Develop oral and written communication skills.
Appreciation and adherence to norms of professional ethics and sense of intellectual integrity.
Ability to plan and manage technical research projects and work in a team.
Strong fundamentals in theoretical and practical aspects of organic, inorganic and physical chemistry.
Develop appreciation of hands-on wet chemistry, analytical, instrumentation, and experimental data handling skills to solve scientific problems to address technological challenges in various domains.
Knowledge of computational and theoretical chemistry.
Skills for material synthesis and processes for device integration.
Develop the ability to exercise independent learning, thinking and problem solving skills.
Develop the ability to interact in a cross-cultural environment and acquire time and project management skills for carrying out guided research work in any of the research area related to science and technology.
Develop skills to communicate scientific learning and present ideas.
Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee
Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee
Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee
Institute Repository
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM
Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM
Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM
###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!