SOURCE_PDF: 21cf4ba44369_English-1-638780692872881841.pdf

Institute Brochure for Prospective Faculty
Designed and Compiled by 
Professor C. Venkatesan, Dr. Kshema Prakash and Dr. Vidya Sarveswaran

DISCLAIMER
The material presented in this document has been 
prepared and compiled in accordance with explicit 
publication rights resting with the Indian Institute of 
Technology Jodhpur. This document is intended for 
pure academic use by individuals and institutes 
without any bias or judgement towards its contents. 
The compilers, editors and IIT Jodhpur will not be 
responsible for any direct, accidental or 
consequential misinterpretations arising from the use 
of material contained in this document. Also, the 
material presented in this document including the 
photographs are the property of the Institute and 
cannot be reproduced without written permission of 
the Institute’s authorities. 
 
 
PHOTO CREDITS 
Vidya Sarveswaran, Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay, Latha 
Menon, Kirti Vardhan Rathore, Harsh Kooshal Gandhi, 
Rajat Mangla, Karthik Mohan, Venkatesh Kotwade, 
Abhinav Joshi, Getty Images, Google Images, 
Websites 
 
 
 
 
© Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur, April 2019

Do you have the spark in you to make a difference through
creative technological solutions? Are you looking for a meaningful 
opportunity to contribute to the grand challenges of the nation? Are 
you passionate about exploring exciting new opportunities? If you 
are … then knock on the creative doorway called IIT Jodhpur!
Whether you are a prospective applicant or a new employee,
we would like to walk you through this unique journey called IIT 
Jodhpur! This brochure is an attempt to orient you towards our core 
values, and life in general in the Institute.
We at IIT Jodhpur are always looking for people with
enormous talent, exceptional academic and research contributions 
and big hearts!
If you hold a doctoral degree or if you are a doctoral student
working in the fields of Engineering, Sciences or Humanities and 
Social Sciences…then…welcome aboard!

Located in India’s most vibrant state – Rajasthan,
IIT Jodhpur’s sprawling, award winning, state-of-the-art
residential campus on 852 acres of land located ~20 km away
north-northeast from the center of the city of Jodhpur on
National Highway 65 towards Nagaur. This new campus has
been planned meticulously and envisioned to stand as an
icon for world class academics – simple, but deep... The
campus has housing for Faculty Members, along with a school, bank and shopping center. Also, it has a Primary Health
Centre with hotline connections to reach the top hospitals of the city, like the All India Institute of Medical Sciences,
Jodhpur, and an equipped ambulance service.

Currently, with the second phase construction of the campus of the Institute underway, IIT Jodhpur has the singular
distinction of being the first fully-planned technical institute campus in India. More importantly, it will be an international
exemplar of sustainability with Net Zero strategies for Energy, Water and Waste.

Vision and Mission
VISION 
The Institute
 Promotes technology thought and action, and 
 Prepares needed technical human resources to meet the technology challenges of the nation.
MISSION 
The Institute is engaged in
 Creating a vibrant technology institute that incubates and promotes learning, research, invention and innovation; and 
 Preparing each primary stakeholder towards their dharma, while continuing to adhere to its core values :-
(a) Prepare competent Technology Graduates ready to meet Grand Challenges of India; 
(b) Train active functionaries of a process driven professional institute; 
(c) Facilitate builders of an internationally competitive academic institute; and 
(d) Provide technology innovation as a force to as many industries as possible for economic value creation.

Departments Departments Discipline Programs
Bioscience & Bioengineering Biotechnology 
Bioscience and Bioengineering   
Computer Science & Engineering Computer Science & Engineering    
Artificial Intelligence  
Electrical Engineering Electrical Engineering  
Communication Engineering 
Cyber Physical Systems  
Sensors and Internet of Things  
Mechanical Engineering Mechanical Engineering  
Advanced Manufacturing and Design  
Thermofluids Engineering  
Manufacturing Engineering 
Design Engineering 
Metallurgical & Materials Engineering Metallurgical & Materials Engineering    
Chemistry Chemistry  
Mathematics Mathematics Mathematics   
Data and Computational Sciences  
Physics Physics  
Humanities & Social Sciences Humanities & Social Sciences 

The masterplan of IIT Jodhpur’s Campus was selected for the 2017 Exemplary Performance Award by the Green
Rating for Integrated Habitat Assessment (GRIHA) Council under ‘Passive Architecture Design’ category.

Campus life at IIT Jodhpur is both vibrant and enriching. Activities, like cultural programs, celebration of national
festivals, workshops of general nature, bring together the Faculty Members and Staff Members along with their families.

Spacious and comfortable housing accommodation on campus is provided to Faculty Members who wish to join
the Institute. While housing allocation is done on the basis of seniority, the type of built spaces are egalitarian in nature. 
All Faculty Members are entitled to the same type of housing irrespective of their designations, ensuring a democratic 
process. Basic electrical fixtures like fans and lights are provided with every house.

The campus has a dedicated arrangement of vendors providing various services, like grocery, laundry, parlours, and
facilities, like dining and a food court.
State Bank of India has a dedicated branch on campus located in the Community Center, Jaisalmer
Club. It provides banking and ATM services. ATM facilities are also available in East Block of the Main 
Building and the Lecture Hall Building operated by the State Bank of India and the Canara Bank.
The Instiute has two dining options.There is a Food Court on the 3rd Floor, Dining Hall
Building that provides hygienic food, fresh juices and various other snacks.
The Institute also has arranged for a vendor, who provides healthy and hygienic food
to students in the Students’ Mess located near the Hostels. Faculty members can avail of 
both the facilites in the Institute. Both the food court and the Student’s mess offer 
vegetarian and nonvegetarian options.
The Community Center on campus is the place to stop by for groceries, dairy and
basic everyday needs. It also houses a beauty salon for both men and women, and a 
stationery store.
Laundry Service is operational from the Himalaya West Berm 5 (Barrels 4 and 5). The
charges are as per piece of laundry. Contact details of the Manager of Laundry Services is 
provided towards the end of this booklet.

A number of Services and Utilities are available on the
Campus. These include Security Services, Housekeeping (collection 
of Solid Waste from all buildings on campus, and sweeping, 
mopping and cleaning of Institute Buildings and Hostels), 
Transport, Water Supply, Electricity Supply, Sewage, Horticulture, 
and Internet & Telephone. Also, the Civil and Electrical Maintenance 
works of the buildings are attended to by the CPWD staff. The 
contact details of the persons handling these services are provided 
at towards the end of this booklet.
There are a number of vendors who are inclined to provide
other services. Though, the Institute does not have any formal 
arrangement with these vendors to provide any service, interested 
persons may contact them to meet their requirements like, drinking 
water, DTH TV, AC maintenance services , supply and installation of 
RO/UV Water Purifier, washing machine services, electrical items 
and supply of furniture.
The city of Jodhpur has several stores that provide popular
brands of all house hold goods. A few of the popular outlets that 
can be visited are Fresh n Green, Big Bazar, Reliance Fresh, National 
Handloom, Thar Handloom and Saluja Enterprises. Most branded 
item are available in the showrooms in the city area.
Contact details of some of these vendors and outlets are
provided towards the end of this booklet.

The IIT Jodhpur Campus is home to several species of native flora and fauna. Black Bucks, Chinkaras, Nilgai, Jackals,
Snakes and the historical Khejri trees.

IIT Jodhpur has a Kendriya Vidyalaya on its campus, where children of Faculty Members and Staff Members study.
Presently, the school runs Classes I to VIII. Also, there are a number of good schools in the city, in which children of Faculty 
Members and Staff Members of IIT Jodhpur study. These include: Delhi Public School, Sri Aurobindo International, 
Vidhyashram International School, Rajmata Krishna Kumari Girls Public School, Mayoor Chopasni School, Saint Patrick’s Vidya 
Bhawan, Saint Anne’s School, Saint Paul’s School, Central Academy, Euro School, and Happy Hours, to name a few.

An ISO 9001:2005 Certified Primary Health Center is fully operational in the
campus, and this service is provided by Goyal Hospital and Research Center Private 
Limited, Jodhpur. It has both Out-Patient and In-Patient services with a panel of 
Medical Officers and Para Medical Staff available on duty round the clock. The basic 
laboratory tests and physiotherapy facilities are provided here. An instrumented 
ambulance is on waiting round the clock for special service needed in the Secondary 
and Tertiary Hospitals in the city of Jodhpur. Besides, weekly visits of specialist 
doctors are arranged in the Primary Health Center. Currently, the facility runs in 3111 
and 3114, Street 3, Park Avenue.
It is good to have in the city an all new state-of-the-art All
India Institute of Medical Sciences, the associated Hospitals of the 
S. N. Medical College and some specialized hospitals. The Institute 
has agreements with a few prominent hospitals for priority 
treatment to its employees and students. These include: Goyal 
Hospital and Research Center, Medi Pulse Hospital, Vasan Eye 
Care Hospital and Vasundhara Hospital.

Jodhpur is a city of historical importance to tourists and a city of strategic importance to the nation, centrally
situated in Marwar – the western region of the state of Rajasthan. It is a small, calm, friendly city with just about 12.7 lakh 
population, with a sizeable population among this being from the Indian Army, Air Force and paramilitary organizations.
The key tourist attractions in Jodhpur are: Mehrangarh Fort, Jaswant Thada, Umaid Bhawan Palace, and Balsamand
and Kaylana lakes. The city is well connected to other major destinations, like Jaisalmer Palace and its neighbouring sand 
dunes, Mount Abu, Neemrana Fort, Ranthambore National Park, Udaipur Palace and surrounding lakes, Ajmer Dargah 
Sharif, Kumbhalgarh Fort, and Jaipur. The Climate of Jodhpur, though hot for most time of the year, touring to the nearby 
destinations is a weekend and semester-end getaway activity of the campus life at IIT Jodhpur.

Are you terrified of traffic jams?! Relax! There are none here in Jodhpur in any part of the city even during “office
hours”!! The anecdotal stories of the Royal Legends of the historic times, and why the city earned its names The Sun City 
or The Blue City are sure to interest you.
The city of Jodhpur is dotted with shopping destinations for authentic ethnic goods.
Marwadi cuisine is popular for its spicy and arid region ingredients. This traditional palette can be relished in its
village kitchens at eateries called Dhānis in and around the city. Ask for GYPSY, if you don’t have much time to wait!

Jodhpur is has no burden of a metropolitan city; it offers the much needed
quiet to do focused academic work. It has 6 new, prominent academic and R&D 
organizations, which are about 5 or more years old, namely: (1) All India Institute 
of Medical Sciences, (2) National Law University, (3) National Institute of 
Fashion Technology, (4) Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Rajasthan Ayurved 
University, (5) Sardar Patel University for Police, Security and Criminal Justice, 
and (6) Footwear Design and Development Institute. DRDO’s Defence 
Laboratory is one of the prominent older R&D organisations in town.
Jodhpur is also a city of Lawyers and Chartered Accountants. Especially
with the High Court of the state of Rajasthan located in the city, Jodhpur has 
ample professional opportunities for spouses with backgrounds in these 
subjects. Further, it has ~700 SMEs around Jodhpur, contributing in various 
sectors. Oil and gas giants, like Cairn Energy, Shell and Schlumberger, are 
strengthening their establishments around Jodhpur. All of the above offer 
opportunities for appointment of spouses of Faculty Members of IIT Jodhpur, 
based on his/her qualifications and relevant experience.

Jodhpur is connected by air to Delhi and Mumbai through Air India and private carriers
fly from and to Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Jaipur and Bangalore. The city is well connected
by train to all major cities in the Country, and by mega highways to major neighbouring cities,
e.g., Jaipur, Jaisalmer, Udaipur and Ahmedabad.
Taxi facilities (Messrs. Balaji Taxi Services) are available on call in and around the campus; in
addition, the Online App-based services are becoming popular. Besides, the Institute has identified a
vendor to provide taxi services to persons needing the service (at cost to the user), and bus service
between the Institute and Jodhpur City at nominal cost.
The Institute has a dedicated bus service to and from the City of Jodhpur, for all residents and
school going children of employees, at regular intervals. Details are provided towards the end of this

IIT Jodhpur: 
(1) Provides transit accommodation immediately on arrival; 
(2) Reimburses relocation expenses from any place in India
or abroad;
(3) Reimburses
(a) Telephone bills 
(b) Medical expenses of self and dependents as per
norms laid down by Government of India, and
(c) Children Education Allowance for first two children
up to Class 12;
(4) Offers
(a) Research Initiation Seed Grant within the initial
period of joining, up to Rs. 25 Lakhs for Faculty 
Members; and
(b) Cumulative Professional Development Allowance of
Rs. 3 Lakhs for a block grant of every 3 years;
(5) Contributes to New Pension Scheme of the Government
of India;
(6) Rewards up to Rs. 10,000 per month for three years for
INSA Young Scientist and INAE Young Engineer 
awardees, and
(7) Facilitates soft loan.

Reimbursement of relocation expenses of up to Rs. 1,50,000 or actual (whichever is less) for candidates joining for
full-time positions at the Institute from abroad/from any place in India, subject to maximum of one-way economy class 
airfare by Air India for travel for family. As per the Government of India norms, the tickets must be booked either through 
Air India Website/Office or the authorized travel agent Balmer & Lawrie Private Limited or Ashok Travels & Tours or IRCTC. 
This facility is available only to candidates joining the posts of Professor, Associate Professor and Assistant Professor after 
executing a bond to serve IIT Jodhpur for 3 Years. Persons joining the post of Assistant Professor Grade II (On Contract) 
can become eligible only, if they are offered the post of Assistant Professor Grade I after due review of performance; in 
such cases, a bond shall be executed to serve IIT Jodhpur for 3 Years after joining the post of Assistant Professor Grade I.
The Institute reimburses telephone bills as per the following slabs.
Designation 
Ceiling Amount (Rs. per Month )
Professors and Group A Official having Pay Level 14 and above 
2700
Associate Professors/Assistant Professors/ Group A Official having Pay Level 12 and above 
2250
Other Entitled faculty members / Other Group A Official having Pay Level 10 and above 
1200
For the Telephone Reimbursement procedure and forms, please log on to Institute Communications Repository.
Employees and their family members are entitled to receive reimbursement for medical attendance and treatment.
After treatment Medical Reimbursement form, Prescription/ Medical Consultation slip, Bill (s) and Medical Booklet should 
be verified by Doctors of IIT Jodhpur Primary Health Center. Medical Consultation / Prescription slip is mandatory for 
medical reimbursement.
Under Children Education Allowance scheme an employee can avail reimbursement of Rs.2250/- per month per child
subject to the annual ceiling of Rs.27000/- per child up to a maximum of two children.
For details of rules, procedures and forms, please log on to Institute Communications Repository.

The Institute supports newly joined young Faculty Members for initiating their research work immediately on
joining, with a sum of Rs. 25 Lakhs for Faculty Members. 
(1) The new Faculty Member shall submit a Seed Grant Proposal to Office of R&D within 02 years from the date of joining
the Institute;
(2) The new Faculty Member will present the proposal the Seed Grant Proposal Review Committee Consisting of:
(a) Director; 
(b) Deputy Director; 
(c) Dean (Faculty); 
(d) Dean (R&D); 
(e) Heads/Professors-in-Charge of all Departments; and 
(f) Chairman, Center for Advanced Scientific Equipment.
(3) All Faculty Members, especially those in the domain of the proposal, are invited to the presentation and encouraged
to help the Faculty Member improve the proposal;
(4) If the proposal is accepted in principle, suggestions made by the Seed Grant Proposal Review Committee should be
incorporated and the revised proposal submitted by the Faculty Member to the Office of R&D. On receiving the 
revised proposal, Dean (R&D) may recommend to the Director for approval of the funds for starting the Seed Grant 
Project; and
(5) After the approval is accorded by the Director, a Seed Grant Project account will be opened by the Office of R&D,
clearly stating the budget utilization under different heads, such as equipments, consumables and other necessary 
sections. The expenditure towards consumable and contingency shall not exceed 25% of the amount granted. No 
furniture items shall be purchased from the seed grant; the same will be provided by the Institute. And, no 
appointment shall be made of Project Staff Members in this Project.
(6) The PI of the Seed Grant Project shall mandatorily submit the Annual Report of the progress made in the project. 
(7) The duration of seed grant project will be for 3 years from the date of approval by the Director. It is the
responsibility of the PI to close the project immediately after 03 years. At the time of closing, the PI shall submit a 
detailed Technical Project Report to the Institute, and give a public Seminar at the Institute on the same.
For more details about Research Initiation Seed Grant, please contact Office of R&D.

i. 
Cumulative Professional Development Allowance will be 
available for each faculty member on reimbursable basis.
ii. CPDA will be available of Rs. 3 lakhs for each block
iii. Current block period is April 01, 2018 to March 31, 2021.
CPDA fund will be not carry forward in next block period.
iv. CPDA will be paid / reimbursed for:
a. National/International Travel 
b. Lodging and Boarding Allowance for attending
Seminars, Conferences and Workshops etc.
c. The membership fee for becoming members of
scientific societies.
d. Purchasing Journals, Books. 
e. Faculty members are allowed to purchase research
databases utilizing CPDA.
f. Payment of Paper Publishing Charges from CPDA
v. The advance may be taken from CPDA fund for
vi. Approval may be taken as per the guideline of
“Delegation of Financial Powers” for utilizing the CPDA 
Fund.
vii. The books purchased through CPDA will not require
entering in Central Stock Register.

The Central Government has introduced the National Pension System (NPS) with effect from January 01, 2004
(except for armed forces). All the employees of Central Government and Autonomous Bodies who have joined on or after 
the above mentioned date are mandatorily covered under NPS. Subscriber (New Employee) shall submit duly filled 
Common Subscriber Registration form (CSRF) for allotment of PRAN to the Office of Accounts with necessary documents 
along with Aadhaar, PAN card and Bank Account Details.
Application forms for registration of Subscribers (CSRF) can be downloaded from the CRA website
www.npscra.nsdl.co.in or can be collected from Office of Accounts.
Soft advance can be applied within 3 years of Joining the Institute and can be availed maximum of 2 times during
the service period. Soft advance can be availed for the purposes of education, obligatory expenses, legal costs purchase 
of consumer durables and pilgrimages.
For details of rules, procedures and forms, please log on to Institute Communications Repository or contact Office of Accounts.

IIT Jodhpur has established several teaching and research laboratories and facilities. These teaching and research
laboratories help Faculty Members and Students work for better future by supplementing and improving existing 
technologies and bodies of knowledge, using competence, creativity and imagination. At the Institute level, the following 
are the equipment available at Center for Advanced Scientific Equipment (CASE).
1. Differential Scanning Calorimeter 
2. Simultaneous Thermal Analyzer 
3. Powder X-Ray Diffractometer 
4. Single Crystal X-Ray Diffractometer 
5. Atomic Force Microscope 
6. Scanning Electron Microscope and Electron Dispersion Spectrometer
7. NMR Spectrometer (500 MHz) 
8. UV-VIS Spectrometers 
9. Fourier Transforms Infrared Spectrometer
10. Fluorescence Spectrometer 
11. Surface Area Analyzer 
12. Fuel Cell
13. PPMS DynaCool 
14. Superconducting Quantum Interface Device (SQUID) 
15. Raman Spectrometer
Contact Dr. Rakesh Kumar Sharma, Chairman,
Center for Advanced Scientific Equipment (CASE) for 
access.

For access to labs, instrumentation facilities and shared collaborative workspaces, please contact the respective
Heads of Departments.

1. Before you arrive…
2. Whom do I report to when I arrive?
3. What are the documents required during the time of joining?
4. When I step into the Institute on first day, what are the procedures to be followed for joining?
5. How can I get an email id and access to Internet?

6. What else do I need to do to settle in?
7. What about Library Membership, Identity Card and my profile on Institute Website?
8. What about reimbursement of relocation expenses?
9. What research equipment are available at the Institute level and how can I access them?
10. How can I open a Bank Account?

11. 11. Where can I get necessary forms, regulations, guidelines and procedures etc. that are required for me to get
12. How can I get an Aadhar Card, a PAN Card and an account in New Pension Scheme (NPS)?
13. What kind of medical services are available on campus and what are the Institute’s authorised medical facilities in
14. Upon my arrival in the Institute, where can I stay till my stay arrangement works out for the long run?
15. Whom do I approach for Housing?
16. How do I know some of the decent residential localities where houses can be rented in case campus housing is not

17. Whom do I contact for gas connection?
18. What about transport to and from Jodhpur City?
19. Where can I buy mattress, cooktops, utensils, etc. household stuff in city?
20. Can I get a list of names of schools for children in Jodhpur?

21. What about transportation inside the campus?

Mr. Sanju Singh
Manager, Shakti Kitchen Services Private Limited 79702 21605
Mr. Manohar Singh
Manager, Thar Oasis Resort & Company Pvt. Ltd. 98280 35840
Fateh Singh 85620 91000
Dr. Suyash Goyal, MD (MHA)
Director, Goyal Hospital & Research Center, Jodhpur 87694 96244
Dr. A. S. Deora, MD (Medicine)
Physician & Officer in-Charge, IITJ PHC 82909 77285
Dr. Gaurav Rodiwal, MBBS
Medical Officer 75681 81841
Dr. Khatri, MS (General Physician)
Medical Officer 94146 33533
Mr. Narayan Rajpurohit
Grocery Store, Rajpurohit Trading Company 97848 83322
Mr. Mahendra Soni
Stationery Store, Mahendra Stationers 94142 94671
Mr. Raju Dan Charan
Vegetable and Fruits Store 99282 68242

Mrs. Shephali Solanki
Ladies Beauty Parlour, Sondaryam A Sofy’s Salon 98290 24481
Mr. Ramesh Kumar
Gents Salon, Kishan Beauty Parlor 97850 15795
Mr. Mohit Jain
Manager, G.S.J. Company Private Limited 94140 00427
Mr. Virma Ram
Mahadev RO Water Supplier 95716 78456, 82391 27513
Mr. Deepak Solanki 97828 86644
Mr. Abhinav Sharma & Mrs. Mukta Sharma
Indane Gas Distributor
M/s. H. N. Gas Service
Kishore Bagh, Mandore Road 98290 21473
(0291) 2571959
(0291) 6454999
(0291) 2572240
Mr. Hanuman Ram Jani
M/s Balaji Transport Services, Jodhpur 98280 79386
Mr. Kailash 81074 78083

Mr. Mukesh Asthana 93147 22466, 90575 86192
Mr. Vineet 78917 25000
Mr. Amit Jhala 97726 01273
Mr. Narendra Bohra 90014 90626
Mr. Sanjay Singh 74278 65500
Mr. Naresh Suthar 86969 37900
Mr. Narendra Singh 97840 16311
Col. P. S. Rathore 94617 58907, 96108 12292
Jabbar Singh Rathore 85028 95345, 95216 43513

Apply online at: 
https://oa.iitj.ac.in/OA_REC_Faculty/ 
 
For any query, please contact: 
Professor Santanu Chaudhury 
Director 
IIT Jodhpur 
director@iitj.ac.in 
+91-291-280 1012 
 
For more information, please visit: 
https://iitj.ac.in
Catch up 
with us on :

© Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur