SOURCE_PDF: 2298e84581c4_Invitation-for-Empanelment-of-Health-Care-Organizations-HCOs-for-Providing-Cashless-Tre.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
“Invitation for Empanelment of Health care
organizations (HCOs) for providing Cashless
Treatment to IITJ beneficiaries.”
Office of Health Centre
Indian Institute of Technology,
Nagaur Road Karwar, Jodhpur-342030

This page is left blank, intentionally.

Availability of form of Invitation for
empanelment of Health Care Organizations Last date for submission of
empanelment form to the Health
Centre via email.
1. Introduction:- 
 
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur (IITJ) is a statutory body and one of premier 
institutions of science & technical education under the Ministry of Education (MoE), 
Government of India. IITJ is established through the Institute of Technology Act, 
1961 and (Amendment) Act 2012 passed by the Parliament with an intent to impart 
education and undertake research, consultancy and other related services from 
Jodhpur as part of Government of India's initiative and policy proposal to extend and 
expand the reach and horizon of science and technology education in the state of 
Rajasthan.
IITJ invites for empanelment of Health Care Organizations from reputed CGHS-
empanelled Private Health Care Organizations (HCOs), located in Jodhpur city to 
provide Multi/ super-specialty treatment, on a cashless basis to the Medical 
Beneficiaries of IITJ.
The Empanelled Health Care Organizations shall be paid as per the CGHS Rates, 
along with the terms and conditions adopted by IITJ from time to time.
The applicants can download “Invitation for empanelment of Health Care 
Organizations” documents from the website at Health centre, IIT Jodhpur. (Refer 
to Page no. 09-11 of this document).
The invitation for empanelment of Health Care Organizations should be submitted via 
email at phc@iitj.ac.in, in all respects, as per the schedule given below. 
 
IITJ will reserve the right to accept or reject any or all the forms without assigning any 
reasons whatsoever.
Applications received after the scheduled date shall be summarily rejected.
Health centre, 
IIT Jodhpur

● The Health Care Organization(s) must be located within Jodhpur
● The Health Care Organization(s) must be empanelled with the Central
Government Health Scheme (CGHS).
3. Terms And conditions:-
Period of the empanelment will be for Two years from the date of the 
signed MoA which can be extended further for one more years on yearly 
basis subject to satisfactory performance. Further extension may be done 
with mutual consent of both parties, and will be sanctioned by the Competent 
Authority, IITJ as the case may be.
2. Scope of Work:- 
A. Empanelment will be for OPD, IPD investigations and emergency medical
B. The Health Care Organization(s) shall extend cashless services to the
Students, employees and their dependents of IITJ at the time of admission for 
Indoor and Outdoor treatment.
C. IITJ will share a list of beneficiaries i.e. Employees and their dependents, who
are authorized to avail medical facilities from the Health Care Organization(s). 
IIT Jodhpur will send the updates about the list of regular employees and their 
dependents to the Health Care Organization(s) Monthly by Email.
D. The Health Care Organization(s) authorities shall allow/ entertain the
employees of IITJ and his/her family member for getting OPD treatment on 
production of photo identity card (For the dependent Medical booklet Should 
be there) or authorization or referral letters issued by IITJ Health Centre.
E. For IPD treatment, a referral form issued by the Health Centre shall be
mandatory. However, in case of an emergency, the patient may be admitted 
immediately, and the referral/consent from the Health Centre, IIT Jodhpur, 
shall be obtained within 24 hours of admission.
F. In case of admission (IPD Cases) of IITJ Students, the expenditures shall be
processed by IIT Jodhpur after presenting the Bills. The benefits of 
empanelment can be availed by the students on submission of referral letter 
from IITJ Doctors and id cards.
G. IIT Jodhpur will provide the details of eligibility of class for its employees as
per the approved entitlement in CGHS. In an emergency when a bed class is 
not available, the Health Care Organization(s) is expected to admit the patient, 
preferably to a class higher at the same rate list of the room he/she is eligible 
for.
H. The Health Care Organization(s) is to provide the indoor medical facilities in
consonance with facility approved and provided to the Central Government 
Employees as per Central Services (Medical Attendance Rules) 1944 & Central 
Government Health Scheme, Rules.

I. The Health Care Organization(s) shall provide ambulance services during
emergencies for the pickup and drop of patients from their residence to the 
Health Care Organization and vice versa, free of any charges.
J. All bills from the Health Care Organization(s) of Faculty/Staff would be sent
directly to the institute in the name of “Health Centre IITJ” at the address 
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur, Nagaur Road, Jodhpur.
K. The Health Care Organization(s) shall provide a list of Specialties available
with them along with the list of Specialist Doctors available for consultation on 
a Monthly basis.
L. The Health Care Organization(s) should clearly specify and highlight the health
packages, outsourced services and any other services if any, which they are 
unable to extend at CGHS rates. The institute will decide at the time of MoA 
to have the services in MoA or not.
M. Agreement with detailed terms and conditions on Stamp paper of Rs.500/-
shall be signed after finalizing empanelment, incidental charges related to 
agreement shall be borne by the Empaneled Health Care Organization(s). 
Agreement will be effective w.e.f. date of signing of the agreement by IITJ.
N. Selected Health Care Organization(s) shall immediately submit their rates for
all CGHS enlisted procedures/investigations to IITJ along with the OPD 
schedule. In no case shall the empaneled Health Care Organization(s) claim 
rates more than the CGHS/ Health Care Organization(s) rates whichever is 
lower.
O. In case of any Natural disaster/ epidemic, the Health Care Organization(s)
shall fully cooperate with the IIT Jodhpur and will convey/reveal all the 
required information, apart from providing treatment.
P. The duration of indoor treatment for specialized and other procedures will be
as per CGHS terms and conditions.
Q. All other terms and conditions shall be governed by the CGHS Rules.
3. Rates:- 
● The rates charged by the empanelled Health Care Organization(s) shall be
as per the CGHS Jaipur–prescribed rates, based on the classification of the 
Health Care Organization(s) (NABH/Non-NABH), or the Health Care 
Organization’s own tariff, whichever is lower. Any revisions in the CGHS 
rates, as and when notified, shall be applicable accordingly.
● If CGHS rates are not available, then AIIMS (All India Institute of Medical
Sciences) rates or the rates of State Government Health Care Organizations 
shall be applicable.
● For items, procedures, or investigations not covered under the CGHS
Jaipur/ AIIMS rate list, the Health Care Organization(s) shall offer a 
discount on their respective tariff rates.
IITJ agrees to settle the bills within 45 days from the date of receipt of the invoice. 
All payments shall be made through direct to the bank account of the empanelled 
Health Care Organization. Payment shall be processed on a monthly basis upon 
submission of bills, and applicable statutory deductions shall be made accordingly.
4. Confidentiality:- 
Empanelled Health Care Organization(s) shall not disclose the content of the 
empanelment/contract to any third party unless it has been agreed between Institute

and the Health Care Organization(s). 
 
 
5. Criteria For De-Empanelement:- 
 
De-empanelment of the empaneled Health Care Organization(s) could be made due to 
any one of the following reasons:-
A. Rendering registration/ written unwillingness to continue in the panel without
serving the complete notice period of One month.
B. Due to a proven case of malpractice/ misconduct and Refusal of services to IITJ
C. Undertaking unnecessary procedures in patients referred for IPD/OPD
D. Prescribing unnecessary drugs/tests and clinical trials while the patient is under
E. If CGHS has de-empanelled a healthcare organization, then IITJ shall also
consider the organization as de-empanelled from the same effective date as 
CGHS.
F. Over billing of the procedures/ treatment/ investigations undertaken. 
G. Reduction in staff/ infrastructure/ equipment etc. after the Health Care
Organization(s) has been empaneled.
H. Non-submission of the report, habitual late submission or submission of incorrect
data in the report.
I. Refusal of cashless treatment to eligible beneficiaries and instead asking them
to pay.
J. Discrimination against IITJ beneficiaries vis-à-vis other patients. 
K. Death of owner/ Change of ownership, location of business place or the practice
place, as the case may be, if not approved by Competent Authority.
L. If the owner gives the establishment on lease to another agency, they will be
liable for de-empanelment, if not approved by Competent Authority.
M. On receiving information of de-empanelment/ blacklisting of Health Care
Organization(s) from the CGHS or any other Govt. Organization.
N. In case of breach of terms and conditions enumerated in empanelment/contract,
both the parties shall be entitled to discontinue the same at any time, after giving 
prior notice of one month to the other side. Notwithstanding such termination, 
each party shall fulfill all obligations accrued in the empanelment/contract prior 
to the time the termination becomes effective.
6. Procedure for de-empanelment/blacklisting:-
A. A Committee will be constituted by the competent authority to investigate the
B. Based on the investigation report and upon examination of the reply to the show-
cause notice served on the empanelled centre, the competent authority, as the 
case may be, shall decide on de-empanelment or blacklisting of the Health Care 
Organization(s). A notice period of 15 days shall be provided for submission of 
the reply.
C. Referral to be stopped with immediate effect from the date of issue of show-

D. If the Health Care Organization is blacklisted, then the MoA with that Health Care
Organization shall stand terminated from the date of blacklisting. The blacklisted 
Health Care Organization shall be debarred from empanelment for a period of 
two years or till the completion of current contract whichever is later.
7. Other Terms:-
A. The Health Care Organization agrees that the arbitrator could be an employee of
the Institute (Incase of any dispute) & shall not have any objections in this 
regard. The proceedings before the arbitrators would be governed by the 
provision of the Arbitration Act 1996.
B. IITJ reserves the right to call for techno-commercial/price negotiations. The
Health Care Organization should depute a competent representative for such 
discussion/negotiations whenever called for and he shall be competent to take 
on the spot decisions.
C. For any dispute, the place of jurisdiction shall be Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India only. 
D. Health Care Organization(s) tariff for the un-coded procedures (those
procedures not covered under CGHS) clearly mentioning the discount offered. 
Both the soft and hard copies need to be furnished. The soft copy may be shared 
to the email Id: phc@iitj.ac.in
E. IITJ reserves the right to modify/alter/Insertion or deletion on any part of the
Invitation document to ensure fulfillment of its material & service requirement at 
any stage.
F. Governing Law: The order placed will be a contract between the supplier and
the buyer and shall be governed by the Laws of India and under the contract 
shall be taken by the parties only in Jodhpur, India to competent jurisdiction.
G. Force Majeure: Neither the Health Care Organization nor the institute shall be
liable to the other, for any delay in or failure of their respective obligations under 
this control caused by occurrences beyond the control of either party because of 
fire, floods, acts of God, acts of public enemy, wars, riots, strikes, lockouts, 
sabotage any law statute or ordinance order actions or regulations of the 
Government or any compliance there is similar to the above. Either party shall 
promptly notify the other of his commencement and cessation of such 
contingency and prove that such is beyond the controls and affects the 
implementation of this contract adversely.
a) Notwithstanding any other provisions in this contract, the IITJ reserves the absolute 
right to terminate the contract forthwith if it is found that continuation of the contract is 
not in public interest. The service provider is not eligible for any compensation or claim 
in the event of such cancellation. 
 
b) If at any later date, it is found that the documents and certificates submitted by the 
service provider are forged or have been manipulated, the work order issued to the 
service provider shall be cancelled and Security Deposit issued to the IITJ shall be 
forfeited without any claim whatsoever on IITJ and the service provider is liable for 
action as appropriate under the extant laws.
c) IIT- Jodhpur reserves the right to accept or reject or cancel any or all offers at any 
stage without assigning any reason thereof. In case of cancellation of order due to Non-
compliance of the Terms and Conditions and Breach of the Contract, No compensation 
will be paid towards progress of order/procurement.

9. Submission of form for Empanelment of Health Care Organizations 
with IIT Jodhpur :- 
 
The Form for empanelment of Health Care Organizations will be uploaded to the 
Institute website. The interested Health Care Organization(s) are required to submit 
their proposals via Email at Phc@iitj.ac.in. 
 
The proposal should include the following documents:-
1. Profile of the Health Care Organization(s), including details of infrastructure
and available facilities.
2. Details of existing tie-ups or empanelment with Government and/or private
organizations, along with supporting documentary evidence.
3. Application Form for empanelment, duly filled and signed by the authorized
4. Proof of Registration of the hospital/Health Care Organization under the
applicable Act (Clinical Establishments Act / State Medical Authority, as 
applicable).
5. Valid CGHS Empanelment Certificate indicating the approved specialties and
validity period.
6. Undertaking on the hospital’s letterhead confirming acceptance of CGHS
rates and terms & conditions of IIT Jodhpur/PHC.
7. Details of Infrastructure & Facilities, including bed strength, ICU/NICU (if
applicable), operation theatres, diagnostic facilities, etc.
8. List of Medical Professionals, including doctors, specialists, nursing staff, and
paramedical staff, with their qualifications and registration numbers.
9. Emergency Services Details, including availability of ambulance services. 
10.Quality Certifications, if any (NABH / NABL), along with validity. 
11.Contact Details of the hospital, including address, phone numbers, email ID,
and nodal/point-of-contact details.
12.Declaration / Affidavit stating that no disciplinary action or blacklisting is
pending or imposed by any Government organization.

“Form For Empanelment of Health Care Organization(s)
on CGHS Rate”
General Information:-
1. Name 
of 
the 
Health 
Care 
Organization(s) 
(with 
Date 
of
4. Email Address:----------------------------------
5. Approximate Distance from Indian Institute of Technology
Jodhpur (in km):__________________
6. Duration of Empanelment with CGHS:-__________

7. NABH/NABL Accreditation:◻ Yes (Vailidity)___________
8. Number of Beds in the Health Care Organization(s): ___________
9. Specialities Available:-
Specialty: ◻ Yes __________
Super Specialty: ◻ Yes_______
(If yes, please attach a separate list of available specialities/super specialities.)
10. 
Availability of Services (24x7): OPD:◻ Yes ◻No
12. 
Any Additional Charges for Night Services: ◻Yes
13. 
Availability of Drug Store (within premises or nearby):
14. 
Interested in Empanelment for Specific Specialities Only?
(If Yes, please specify: )
Authorised Signatory with Stamp 
Name:________________

The proposal should include the following documents:-
1. Profile of the Health Care Organization(s), including details of infrastructure
and available facilities.
2. Details of existing tie-ups or empanelment with Government and/or private
organizations, along with supporting documentary evidence.
3. Application Form for empanelment, duly filled and signed by the authorized
4. Proof of Registration of the hospital/Health Care Organization under the
applicable Act (Clinical Establishments Act / State Medical Authority, as 
applicable).
5. Valid CGHS Empanelment Certificate indicating the approved specialties and
validity period.
6. Undertaking on the hospital’s letterhead confirming acceptance of CGHS
rates and terms & conditions of IIT Jodhpur/PHC.
7. Details of Infrastructure & Facilities, including bed strength, ICU/NICU (if
applicable), operation theatres, diagnostic facilities, etc.
8. List of Medical Professionals, including doctors, specialists, nursing staff, and
paramedical staff, with their qualifications and registration numbers.
9. Emergency Services Details, including availability of ambulance services. 
10.Quality Certifications, if any (NABH / NABL), along with validity. 
11.Contact Details of the hospital, including address, phone numbers, email ID,
and nodal/point-of-contact details.
12.Declaration / Affidavit stating that no disciplinary action or blacklisting is
pending or imposed by any Government organization.

Undertaking for empanelment of Health
Care Organization(s)
We hereby certify that-
a. The details provided above regarding physical infrastructure, services, and
specialities are accurate and true to the best of our knowledge.
b. In the event that any information is found to be false or misleading, we
understand that our Health Care Organization(s) may be disqualified and 
de-recognised by the IIT Jodhpur for future empanelment.
c. Upon successful empanelment,we commit to provide medical services/
necessary disposables/ sundries;etc. To IIT Jodhpur beneficiaries as per
standard and approved quality.
Authorised Signatory with Stamp