SOURCE_PDF: 229b8e0b1715_SoLA-Exhibition-Report-2.0.pdf

SCHOOL OF LIBERAL ARTS
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Report on SoLA EXHIBITION at the Quindecennial Celebrations of IIT Jodhpur
Rachel Philip, Assistant Professor of Sociology
Sreedevi D., Assistant Professor of English
Farhat Naz, Head and Associate Professor of Sociology
The School of Liberal Arts showcased different aspects of its inception, history and current 
activities at the Exhibition organized on the occasion of the launch of Quindecennial Celebrations 
of IIT Jodhpur on 16 March, 2023. This event also marked the inauguration of Intellia: The Board 
of Department Societies Festival. Demonstrating the diversity, vibrancy and novelty of its 
research, academic output and student activities, the School of Liberal Arts made its presence 
felt at the Quindecennial Celebrations of IIT Jodhpur. The SoLA stall hosted many visitors and 
saw a great footfall.
The chief guest of the event, Dr. S. Chandrasekhar, Secretary, Department of Science and 
Technology, Government of India, visited the exhibition on 16 March, 2023 and interacted with 
the faculty and students commenting in particular the importance of the work done in the areas of 
sustainability, psychology and environmental humanities. PhD students from the School curated 
and presented different aspects of the exhibition over 18th and 19th of March as well for Intellia: 
The Board of Departmental Societies Festival, for the Alumni of the IIT Jodhpur as well as for the 
visiting delegates from the University of Buffalo, New York, USA.

The vision of the School of Liberal Arts was represented in a tangible form through the 
various showcases of the exhibition. The exhibition was curated in a manner designed to 
reflect the School’s novel, open, futuristic, transdisciplinary, and inclusive liberal humanist 
approach. Here are some interesting highlights from the exhibition.
SoLA Cohort
History of SoLA:
A special exhibit traced 
key milestones in our 
evolution from Centers in 
2011 (focusing on aspects 
such as Energy, Systems 
Science, Biologically 
Inspired Systems Science, 
Information & Technology) 
to Focus Groups between 
2014-2014 (working in the 
areas Health & Society; 
Sustainability & Society; 
Human Resource 
Development & Society, 
Culture & Society), to the

Department of Humanities and Social Sciences (HSS) in 2015 and finally to the School 
of Liberal Arts in 2022.This poster highlighted the vibrant multidisciplinary ethos of SoLA 
where faculty and students work in the diverse areas of Literary, Cultural and Film 
Studies, Philosophy, Sociology, Economics and Psychology.
The enriching and thought-provoking academic discussions and conversations that 
occurred under the earlier aegis of the HSS and currently through SoLA, were captured 
through postcard posters of various seminars and lectures delivered by distinguished 
academics. The exhibit also showcased the innovative Postgraduate programs offered 
by the School, including MSc in Computational Social Sciences and Masters in XR 
Design. Visitors could also learn about the Center of Excellence on Art and Digital 
Immersion (ADI) under SoLA.
PhD students interacting with visitors
Life of SoLA: Using photographs 
from key events, an attempt was 
made to give visitors a flavour of 
the Life at the School of Liberal 
Arts from the perspective of 
students. Apart from showcasing 
the different disciplines, the wall 
also presented snapshots from 
various events held at the School 
as well as the evocative moments 
and photographs captured by 
students.

Student Experiences and Output: 
Snippets 
of 
student 
work
(represented 
through 
various
posters), 
as 
well 
as 
their
achievements (papers presented at 
conferences, journal articles, book 
chapters, awards etc.) along with 
details of alumni of the School were 
also showcased. A poster also 
highlighted 
work 
done 
by 
the
students of the MSc CSS program.
Projects: Another wall of the exhibition showcased 
details of ongoing and completed projects as well as 
snapshots of a few projects in the forms were also 
displayed. The 17 projects that were showcased 
highlighted the kind of interdisciplinary research by the 
faculty from the School in collaboration with others at IIT 
Jodhpur 
as 
well 
as 
national 
and 
international
collaborators in areas of key social relevance.
Publications Exhibit: The sheer diversity of the kind of research that is done at SoLA was also 
represented through a section of the exhibition devoted to faculty publications. A book exhibition 
highlighting academic as well as creative works by faculty also offered visitors a chance to browse 
through some of this research output.
Highlighting SoLA’s interdisciplinary research output

Virtual Tour of SoLA:
Visitors 
also 
got 
a 
chance 
to
experience a Virtual Tour of SoLA 
through videos created by the PhD 
Students. Beginning with a welcome 
and overview by the Head of the 
School and Associate Professor of 
Sociology, Dr. Farhat Naz, viewers 
were given a taste of the vibrant SoLA 
building and environs, the classroom 
experiences, student activities like 
academic 
discussions, 
film-
screenings, leisure activities etc.
The English Language Instructor Ms. 
Nivedita Verma introduced the Digital 
Language Laboratory and the state-
of-the-art language tools available for training students in reading, writing and expressing 
themselves in English.
The Psychology Lab and the kind of work 
undertaken in the lab was presented by the PhD 
scholars Pooja Rawat, Krishna Bhandari, 
Prarthana Saikia and Komal Sharma in a special 
video presentation.
The vision and aspirations of the Center of 
Excellence on Arts and Digital Immersion 
was introduced in a special video created by 
Prof. Chhanda Chakraborti, Prof. Nimish Vohra 
and students.
A trailer of the film project done by Dr. Vidya 
Sarveswaran, Associate Professor of English, 
titled ‘Under Another Sky’ was also showcased.

Celebrating the essence of SoLA:
SoLA stands for its values on fostering humanitarian values, diversity, inclusiveness, and 
this was clearly visible through its academic showcase of work. SoLA showed that it 
firmly believes in academic excellence with pedagogical innovations that represent their 
dedication and commitment to the vision of the School and IIT Jodhpur at large. The Work 
Exhibit at the Celebrations which spanned over three days was a brilliant platform that 
opened up a space for engaging with visitors from India and abroad. It also was a very 
encouraging display of teamwork and coordination both by SoLA faculty and students. 
We, as faculty members and student volunteers, take great pride in the hard work and 
initiative that made the event a success. The event's success would not have been 
possible without the teamwork of all SoLA faculty members and the commendable 
initiative of the core team of students in curating the exhibition as well as all the PhD 
students who were involved in representing the work of SoLA to the visitors. The constant 
support of the office staff, Shashank Choudhury and Udhay Kumar, is deeply appreciated.

Finally, we invite you to explore the courses, research, and collaborative projects the team 
at SoLA are engaged with. Our earnest hope is that SoLA’s work will foster new academic 
partnerships, friendships, dialogues, and engagements.
Core Team of Faculty Members: Farhat Naz, Rachel Philip, Sreedevi, Gopakumar
Core Student Team: Sanjay Bissoyi, Jayprakash Show, Bhairab Barman, Sanskiriti, Isha Sharma, Biplab 
Karak, Prarthana Saikia, Pooja Rawat, Krishna Bhandari
Digital Language Lab Videography: (English Language Instructor) Nivedita Verma, (Students) Jayprakash 
Show, Ashish James, Ashonshok Kachui
Psychology Lab Videography: Krishna Bandhari, Pooja Rawat, Prarthana Saikia, Komal Sharma, Nurdini 
Chusna, Bhairab Barman
Life of SoLA Videography: (Faculty) Farhat Naz, (Students) Sanjay Bissoyi, Sanskriti, Bhairab Barman
Exhibit Curation and Decoration: (Faculty) Rachel Philip, Gopakumar (Students) Isha Sharma, Pooja 
Rawat, Prarthana Saikia, Surabhi Singh, Kritika Mishra, Jayprakash Show, Biplab Karak
Exhibition Presenters: (Faculty) Farhat Naz, Hari Narayanan V., Prasenjeet Tribhuvan, Sreedevi, Suman 
Dhaka, (Students) Ishani Vajpayee, Sanjay Bissoyi, Atul Pandey, Nisha Paliwal, Alan Joy Puthur, Minal 
Mehta, Amir Sohel, Samya Roy, Surabhi Singh, Gautam Kumar, Swarnima Banerjee, Ashish James, 
Samyukthah, Kritika Mishra, Yogeshwar Joshi, Anindita Dey, Sibsankar Pradhan, Jyoti Sharma, Deepa, 
Bhairab Barman