SOURCE_PDF: 23a5fe9dd8bf_-brochure-for-Executive-MTech--638887974356693709.pdf

Admission to M.Tech in Intelligent VLSI Systems for Part-time and Part-time project sponsored
categories
IIT Jodhpur invites applications for admission to Part-time M. Tech. (Intelligent VLSI Systems) program for 
Semester commencing from September 2022. The proposed Executive M. Tech program in Intelligent VLSI Systems 
of IIT Jodhpur includes state of the art semiconductor devices and modeling techniques, analog and digital VLSI 
circuits and systems, mixed signal circuits, testing and verification algorithms, issues with system integration for 
performance considerations, covering wide aspects of embedded and computing systems, and emerging applications. 
The minimum duration of the programme will be three academic years.
Eligibility
B.Tech./B.E. (ECE/EE/CSE/EI/MSc. Physics/MSc. Electronics or equivalent) with at least 60% marks.
Categories of admission 
 
Part-time: The students will attend regular classes as per the schedule of the Institute. The student must be employed 
in the neighbourhood of IIT Jodhpur and must produce a NOC from the employer for pursuing the programme at IIT 
Jodhpur. The student can register only for a limited number of credits as compared to a full-time regular student. At 
least 2 years of professional work experience is required.
Part-time project sponsored: This category is opened for candidates who are/will be working full time for the 
internal projects of IIT Jodhpur to pursue M.Tech in Intelligent VLSI Systems. The applications in this category 
will be processed as per the available positions in the department.
Selection Procedure
Candidates must fill an online application at https://oa.iitj.ac.in/OA_PG_ADMISSION/. Selection will be based on 
written test and/or interview and/or any other criteria deemed suitable by the admission committee. Prior research 
exposure and/or industry experience in areas related to VLSI will be considered a plus. The department reserves the 
right to set any cut off criteria for shortlisting the candidates. Mere fulfillment of the eligibility criteria does not 
guarantee that the candidate will be shortlisted, as the shortlisting criteria are often stricter than the eligibility criteria. 
Shortlisting criteria is decided after receiving the applications, and is aimed at limiting the number of candidates 
considered for evaluation.
Program Fee: The fee structure will be as per the revised M.Tech. Fee structure for 2022-2023 session. For updates, 
please visit
Fees once paid will not be refunded, if the candidate fails to join the program.
Written Test Topics: Basics of programming, basic mathematics, basics of electronics, circuit theory, digital 
electronics
Credit Requirements
Students need to earn 62 credits as per the course structure in order to qualify for the degree over a period of 3 years. 
More details related to the program are available here: 
https://iitj.ac.in/department/index.php?dept=ee&cat=program&id=59
Faculty
Instructors comprising of IITJ faculty members and industry experts.

Important Dates
August 14, 2022: Last date of receiving applications 
August 17, 2022: Announcing the list of shortlisted candidates 
August 27, 2022: Written-test/interview 
September 6, 2022: Announcement of selected candidates 
September 8-11, 2022: Fee link activation 
September 12-13, 2022 Registration of students 
September 15, 2022 Orientation of new students 
September 17, 2022 Commencement of classes 
 
Application Procedure
Applicants are requested to use the following link to fill and submit the application form online: 
https://oa.iitj.ac.in/OA_PG_ADMISSION
Applicants are required to pay the processing fee of Rs. 500 online while submitting the application form. The 
application fees is non-refundable.
Cancellation of admission
The Institute reserves the right to cancel, at any stage, the admission of a candidate admitted to a programme and is 
later found that he/she is not entitled, being unqualified or ineligible in accordance with the Regulations in vogue, or 
suspension/termination of programme. In case of cancellation/withdrawn of admission after registration from 
programme, refund of fee will not be permissible.
Contact us:
In case of any query with respect to the online application, candidates may contact: Office of Automation 
(oa_automation@iitj.ac.in) and other general queries may be directed to the office of the Department of Electrical 
Engineering at the following phone number: 0291-2801352 or email address: office_ee@iitj.ac.in.