SOURCE_PDF: 29647a2c662f_Non-Teaching-Staff-Members-Syllabus-IITJ-O_E-II_-2024-25-Non-Academic-Staff-57-63877992.pdf

Engineering Mechanics Force (resolution of force, moment of force, force system composition of
forces), Equilibrium, Friction, Centroid and Center of gravity, Simple
machines.
Building Construction Building components (substructure, superstructure) type of structure (load
bearing, framed and composite structures).
Building material Masonry materials (stones, bricks and mortars), Timber and miscellaneous
materials (glass, plastic, fibre, aluminium steel, galvanized iron, bitumen,
PVC, CPVC and PPF).
Construction of
substructure Job layout, earthwork, foundation (types, dewatering coffer dams, bearing
capacity).
Construction of
superstructure Stone masonry brick masonry, Hollow concrete block masonry, composite
masonry, cavity wall, doors and windows, vertical communication (stairs,
lifts escalators), scaffolding and shoring.
Building finishes Floors (finishes, process of laying), walls (plastering, pointing, painting) and
roofing materials including RCC).
Building Maintenance Cracks (causes, type, repairs- grouting, epoxy etc.), settlement (causes and
remedial measures), and re-baring techniques.
Building drawing Conventions (type of lines, symbols), planning of building (principles of
planning for residential and public buildings, rules and byelaws), drawing
(plan, elevation, section, site plan, location plan, foundation plan, working
drawing) perspective drawing.
Concrete Technology Properties of various types/ grades of cement, properties of coarse and fine
aggregates, properties of concrete (water cement ratio properties of fresh and
hardened concrete), Concrete, quality control of concrete (batching,
formwork, transportation, placing, compaction, curing waterproofing),
extreme weather concreting and chemical admixtures, properties of special
concrete (ready mix, RCC, pre-stressed, fibre reinforced precast high
performance).
Surveying Types of survey, chain and cross staff survey (principle, ranging
triangulation, chaining, errors, finding area), compass survey (principle,
bearing of line, prismatic compass, traversing, local attraction, calculation of
bearings, angles and local attraction) levelling (dumpy level, recording in
level book. Temporary adjustment, methods of reduction of levels,
classification of levelling, tilting level, auto level, sources of errors,
precautions and difficulties in levelling), contouring (contour interval,
characteristics, methods of locating, interpolation, establishing grade
contours, uses of contour maps), area and volume measurements, [lane table
survey (principles, setting, method) theodolite survey (components,
adjustments, measurements, traversing), Tachometric survey curves (types,
setting out), advanced survey equipment, aerial survey and remote sensing.
Computer Aided Design CAD Software (AutoCAD, Auto Civil, 3D Max etc.), CAD commands,
generation of plan, elevation, section, site plan, area statement, 3D view.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Syllabus for the post of JUNIOR ENGINEER (Civil)

Geo Technical
Engineering Application of Geo Technical Engineering in design of foundation,
pavement, earth retaining structures, earthen dams etc., physical properties
of soil, permeability of soil and seepage analysis, shear strength of soil,
bearing capacity of soil, compaction and stabilization of soil, site
investigation and sub soil exploration.
Hydraulics Properties of fluid, hydrostatic pressure, measurements of liquid pressure in
pipes, fundamentals of fluid flow, flow of liquid through pipes, flow through
open channel, flow measuring devices, hydraulic machines.
Irrigation Engineering Hydrology, investigation and reservoir planning, percolation tanks, diver
head works.
Mechanics of Structure Stress and strain, shear force and bending moment, moment of intertia
stresses in beams analysis of trusses, strain energy.
Theory of structure Direct and bending stresses, slope and deflection, fixed beam, continuous
beam, moment distribution method, columns.
Design of Concrete
Structure Working Stress method, Limit State method, analysis and design of singly
reinforced and doubly reinforced sections shear, bond and development
length, analysis and design of T Beam, slab axially laded column and
footings.
Design of Steel Structure Types of sections, grades of steel, strength characteristics, IS Code,
Connections, Design of tension and compression members, steel roof truss,
beams, column bases.
Transportation
Engineering Railway Engineering (alignment and gauges, permanent way, railway track
geometrics, branching of tracks, stations and yards, track maintenance),
Bridge engineering (site selection, investigation, component parts of bridge,
permanent and temporary bridges, inspection and maintenance), Tunnel
engineering (classification, shape and sizes, tunnel investigation and
surveying, method of tunnelling in various strata, precautions, equipment,
explosives lining and ventilation).
Highway Engineering Road Engineering, investigation for road project geometric design of
highways, construction of road pavements and materials traffic engineering,
hill roads drainage of roads, maintenance and repair of roads.
Environmental
Engineering Environmental pollution and control, public water supply, domestic sewage,
solid waste management, environmental sanitation and plumbing.
Advanced Construction
Techniques and
Equipment Fibers and plastics, artificial timber, advanced concreting methods (under
water concreting, ready mix concrete, tremix concreting, special concretes),
formwork, pre-fabricated construction, soil reinforcing techniques, hosting
and conveying equipment, earth moving machinery (exaction and
compaction equipment), concrete mixers, stone crushers, pile driving
equipment, working of hot mix bitumen plant bitumen paver, floor polishing
machines.
Estimating and Costing Types of estimates (approximate, detailed), mode of measurements and rate
analysis.
Contracts and Accounts Types of Engineering Contracts Tender and tender documents, payment,
specification.
(B) SKILL TEST
1. Work procedure as per CPWD guidelines. 
2. Knowledge of computer applications (like MS-Word, Excel, Power Point and E-Mail, etc.

Basic concepts Concepts of resistance, inductance, capacitance, and various factors
affecting them. Concepts of current, voltage, power, energy and their
units.
Circuit law Kirchhoff’s law, Simple Circuit solution using network theorems.
Magnetic Circuit concepts of flux, mmf, reluctance, Different kinds of magnetics materials
Magnetic calculations for conductors of different configuration e.g.
straight, circular, solenoidal, etc. Electromagnetic induction, self and
mutual induction.
AC Fundamentals Instantaneous, peak, R.M.S. and average values of alternating signal,
Representation of sinusoidal wave form, simple series and parallel AC
Circuits consisting of R.L. and C, Resonance, Tank Circuit. Poly phase
system-star and delta connection, 3 phase power, DC and sinusoidal
signal response of R-Land R-C circuit.
Measurement and measuring
instruments Measurement of power (1 phase and 3 phase, both active and re-active)
and energy, 2 wattmeter method of 3 phase power measurement,
Measurement of frequency and phase angle, ammeter and voltmeter
(both moving oil and moving iron type), extension of range wattmeter,
Megger, Energy meter AC Bridges. Use of CRO, Signal Generator, CT, PT
and their uses. Earth Fault detection.
Electrical Machines (a) D.C. Machine – Construction, Basic Principles of D.C. motors and
generators, their characteristics, speed control and starting of D.C.
Motors. Method of braking, motor Losses and efficiency of D.C.
Machines.
(b) 1 phase and 3 phase transformers- Constructions, Principles of
operation, equivalent circuit, voltage regulation, O.C. and S.C.
Tests, Losses and efficiency. Effect of Voltage frequency and wave
form on losses, Parallel operation of 1 phase Induction Motors
Characteristics and applications.
(c) 3 Phase induction motors, rotating magnetic field, principle of
operation, equivalent circuit, torque-speed characteristics,
starting and speed control of 3 phase induction motors. Methods
of braking, effect of voltage and frequency variation on torque
speed characteristics, Fractional Kilowatt Motors and Single
Phase Induction Motors Characteristics and applications.
(d) Synchronous Machines: Generation of 3 phase e.m.f. armature
reaction, voltage regulation, parallel operation of two alternators,
synchronizing, control of active and reactive power, Starting and
applications of synchronous motors.
Generation, Transmissions
and Distribution Different types of power stations, Load factor, diversity factor, demand
factor, cost of generation, inter-connection of power stations. Power
factor improvement, various types of tariffs, types of faults, short circuit
current for symmetrical faults. Switchgears and Protection Rating of
circuit breakers Principles of arc extinction by oil and air, H.R.C Fuses,
Protection against earth leakage, over current, etc. Buchholz relay, Merz-
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Syllabus for the post of JUNIOR ENGINEER (Electrical)

Estimation and Costing Estimation of lighting scheme, electrical installation of machines and
relevant rules, Earthling practices and IE Rules.
Utilization of Electrical
Engineering: Illumination, Electric heating, Electric welding, Electroplating, Electric
drivers and motors.
Basic Electronics Working of various electronic devices e.g. P N Junction diodes
Transistors (PNP and PNP type), BJT and JFET Simple circuits using these
devices.
Air Conditioning General principles of Refrigeration and Air-conditioning, Terminology,
Factors affecting A.C. Load, Psychrometric chart, comfort air
conditioning, General principles of window / split air conditioners.
Earthing Design, Layout, and installation procedures for Building / Substation
earth, Lightning protection and Surge protection devices.
Routine Work; Preparation of estimate for electrical work, Estimation and costing of the
electrical related work, Preparation of Notice inviting tender, Notice
inviting Quotation and Market rate analysis.
(B) SKILL TEST
1. Work procedure as per CPWD guidelines. 
2. Knowledge of computer applications (like MS-Word, Excel, Power Point and E-Mail, etc. 
3. Knowledge of measuring instrument ( like Meggar, multimeter, watt hour meter, lux meter, db meter,
temperature and pressure gauge etc.);
4. Switchgear and busbar system used at the 33/11 kV substation; 
5. Earthing system used at SS and Buildings; 
6. Lightning arrester used at Substation and high rise buildings; 
7. DG operation and maintenance; 
8. Overhead line of 33 kV; 
9. Underground cabling of 33/11 kV (Laying procedure of cable, testing of cable etc.) 
10. Knowledge about Transformer and sub-station yard maintenance.

Mechanical Engineering
Science Energy and steam, forms Sources and Classification of energy, Steam
boilers- classification, Classification, Principle of operation of Impulse
and reaction, gas & water turbine, Classification, I.C. Engines parts,
Refrigeration and Air conditioning, Lathe and Drilling Machines, Milling
and Grinding Machines, Joining Processes, Lubrication and Bearings
Soldering, Brazing and Welding, Power Transmission Belt Drives &
Fasteners.
Engineering Mechanics Introduction to engineering mechanics, Composition of forces, Free body
diagram, equations of equilibrium, Conditions of static equilibrium for
different force systems, Lami’s theorem, Friction, Statically determinate
beams, Centroids and moment of inertia.
Strength of Material Stress and strain, Shear stress, Bending moment and Shear force
diagrams, Elastic constants, principal stresses, Maximum stresses in
beams, Deflection of beams, and Torsion of shaft
Engineering Drawing Introduction, Drawing Instruments and their uses, BIS conventions,
Lettering, Dimensioning and free hand practicing, Orthographic
Projections, Orthographic Projections of plane surfaces, Projections of
Solids, Sections and development of lateral Surfaces of Solids, Isometric
projection (Using Isometric Scale only). Computer Assisted
Drafting/Modeling.
Material Science &
Metallurgy: Structure of crystalline solids, Diffusion, Diffusion Mechanism, Fick’s
laws of diffusion. Gibbs phase rule, Binary phase diagrams, Iron-carbon
Diagram. Mechanical Properties of Materials, Tension test, Hardness
tests and impact tests, Elastic and Plastic behaviour, yield point
phenomenon, True stress-true strain relationships, Types of fracture,
stages in cup & cone fracture, Fatigue: fatigue tests, S-N Curves.
Composite Materials: Types of composite materials. Properties of fibers
and matrix materials. General methods of production, properties and
applications of FRP,PRC, MMC and structural composites. Expressions
for density, Young’s modulus and strength of continuous fiber reinforced
composites in iso- strain and iso – stress conditions. Applications of
composite materials in aerospace, automobile and other fields.
THERMAL & FLUIDES
ENGINEERING Thermodynamics: System, Surroundings, Boundary, Property, State,
Process, Cyclic process, Path function, point function, Zeroth law, first
and second of thermodynamics. Carnot Cycle, Irreversibility and
availability. Concept of Heat engines, efficiency of heat engine- concept
of heat pump and Refrigerator coefficient of performance.
Fluid Mechanics: Fluid-definition, concepts of continuum, shear stress as
applied to fluids, fluid properties viscosity, Newton’s law, surface
tension, bulk modulus, compressibility, vapour pressure, capillarity,
gauge and absolute pressures of a fluid. Principle of manometers, simple
and differential manometers, Bourdon’s pressure gauge, Pascal’s law,
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Syllabus for the post of JUNIOR ENGINEER (Mechanical)

Mechanical Measurements Measurements and measurement systems: Definition, significance of
measurement, generalized measurement system, definitions and concept
of accuracy, precision, calibration, sensitivity, repeatability, linearity,
standards of measurement, limits, fits, tolerance and gauging, principle
of interchageability, Indian standards, comparators and angular
measurement, mechanical and optical comparators, LVDT, Pneumatic
comparators; Transducers, primary and secondary transducers,
electrical, mechanical, electronic transducers; intermediate modifying
and terminating devices: mechanical, cathode ray oscilloscope,
oscillographs, X-Y plotters. Measurement of force, torque, pressure,
temperature and strain.
Heating , Air conditioning a&
refrigeration System Air conditioning: Introduction to Air conditioning; Factors affecting Air
conditioning; Psychometric chart and its use; Psychometric process-
sensible heating and cooling, Humidifying and dehumidifying;
Adiabatic saturation process; Equipments used in air conditioning cycle;
Air conditioning units and plants. Refrigeration and Air-conditioning
tools: Tools used in refrigeration and Air conditioner installation;
Installation procedure; Faults in refrigeration and air conditioning
system; Servicing procedure
Pumps Principle of working and applications, Types of casings and impellers,
Concept of multistage, Priming and its methods, Cavitation, Manometric
head, Work done, Manometric efficiency, Overall efficiency. Numericals
on calculations of overall efficiency and power required to drive pumps.
Steam Turbines Impulse and Reaction Turbines; Condensers: Jet & Surface Condensers,
Cooling Towers; Internal Combustion Engines and Refrigeration: Otto,
Diesel and Dual cycles; P-V and T-S Diagrams; IC Engines: 2 - Stroke and
4 - Stroke I.C. Engines, S.I. and C.I. Engines.
Air Compressors Functions of air compressor; Uses of compressed air; Types of air
compressors; Single stage reciprocating air compressor - its construction
and working (with line diagram) using P-V diagram; Multi stage
compressors – Advantages over single stage compressors; Rotary
compressors: Centrifugal compressor, axial flow type compressor and
vane type compressors.
General Preparation of budget estimate for Mechanical work, Estimation and
costing of the electrical related work, Preparation of Notice
Inviting tender, Notice inviting Quotation and Analysis of market rates.
Having piping knowledge, leak detection and attention system.
Planning and Scheduling of work.
Root cause and failure analysis. Corrosion and inspection of piping and
other equipments.
(B) SKILL TEST
1. Work procedure as per CPWD guidelines. 
2. Knowledge of computer applications (like MS-Word, Excel, Power Point and E-Mail, etc.)