SOURCE_PDF: 2d29a579346c_details-of-the-UG-program-638769639494205696.pdf

UG Program (B.Tech Mechanical Engineering)
The key objectives of this program are:
a. To enable students to have fundamental understanding of the core concepts of Mechanical
Engineering
b. To integrate analytical and computational ability with experimental skills to create
individuals competent in professional engineering practices
c. To stimulate critical thinking towards application of mechanical engineering concepts in
interdisciplinary problem solving
d. To expose students to advanced concepts like AI & ML, Industry 4.0 and IoT for product and
system design
e. To inculcate an attitude towards commitment to engineering ethics, leadership qualities
and professional development.
Graduates of B.Tech program in Mechanical Engineering will have:
1. Strong understanding of fundamentals of Thermofluids, Mechanical Design and
Manufacturing (Processes and Systems)
2. Ability to apply mechanical engineering principles to address challenges in real life
problems through creative interdisciplinary thinking
3. Ability to use different simulation and computational tools for a better understanding and
designing of mechanical processes/systems
4. Capability to appreciate the use of some of the advanced concepts like AI & ML, Robotics,
Industry 4.0, IoT in Mechanical Engineering applications
5. Awareness of grassroots problems of the society and ability to provide technological
solutions of sustainable nature.
6. Entrepreneurial spirit to undertake disruptive innovations
7. Skills to communicate engineering concepts and ideas to peers in written or oral forms
8. Commitment towards professional ethics and have humanitarian engineering skills.

Learning Outcome 
Graduates of the B.Tech. program in Mechanical Engineering will:
1. Gain a strong understanding of mathematics, science and engineering fundamentals of
mechanical engineering
2. Be able to design and conduct experiments as well as to analyze and interpret data
3. Be introduced to concepts including engineering design / optimization / sensors fabrication
/ computational methods / simulation tools / thermal systems / refrigeration / heat
transfer/ fluid flows/ nanomaterials/ AI/ IoT/ Smart Computing for various applications
4. Have the ability to design a mechanical system, component or process tailored to meet
desired needs under socio-economic and environmental constraints
5. Be exposed to common problems that are prevalent in the domains of energy storage,
systems and devices, clean energy, and nano-materials, futuristic technology, and advanced
scientific computation methods, allowing them to innovate and develop technological
solutions for the same
6. Receive effective, hands-on laboratory training as a part of laboratory courses and short-
term research projects
7. Develop their communication skills by participating in classroom presentations, seminars
and workshops on manuscript / patent writing / presentation skills
8. Be taught the value of team work and group discussion in problem solving, and time
management to continue co-curricular activities without compromising for academics.
New skillsets targeted 
Multi and interdisciplinary approaches
1. Design, develop and manufacturing of new or modified components for mechanical systems
using computer-aided design/modelling software/additive manufacturing
2. Latest industrial pursuits, particularly in the areas of automation, robotics, and smart
scientific computing, microfluidics etc.
3. Development of smart manufacturing capabilities for relevant industries
4. To play key roles in improving the range and performance of hybrid and electric automotive
vehicles
5. Design of power-producing machines in the fields of alternative energies
6. Experimental validation of computational designs

7. Selection of materials based on engineering applications to ensure that it is safe, reliable
and efficient
8. Advanced mechanical testing and characterization techniques
9. Familiarity with advanced and futuristic scientific computing techniques
Topic clouds and Mapping of Topic clouds with proposed courses

Area Topics Category (Core/
Techniques
Technology/Systems) Course (PC/PE)
Design Stress, Strain,
Bending & Torsion Core Mechanics of Solid (PC)
Hydraulic and
Pneumatic Systems,
Electro-Mechanical
systems,
Microprocessor and
Microcontroller
based Mechatronic
systems,
Design and
Selection of
Mechatronics
Elements Core and Techniques Embedded systems and IoT
(PC)
Geometric &
Functional
Requirements,
Sizing, Theory of
Failures, Design and
Selection of
Machine Elements Core and Techniques Design of Machine Elements
(PC)
Mechanism
Synthesis, Motion
Analysis, Force
Analysis, Gear
Trains, Cams,
Dynamics of Multi-
Cylinder Engines Core and Techniques Kinematics & Dynamics of
Machines (PC)
Engineering
Mechanics Core Engineering Mechanics
Galerkin methods
Finite element
methods Techniques Introduction to Finite
element methods(PE)
Mechanical
vibrations of one,
two and multi
degree of freedom
systems, types of
damping, vibration
control and
measurements,
Introduction to
continuous systems. Core Mechanical Vibrations (PE)
Topics and Mapping of Topic with Courses

Advanced analysis
of strength of
materials Core Advanced mechanics of
solids (PE)
Optimization
techniques for
engineering
problems Technique Engineering Optimization
(PE)
Curves, Surfaces
and Solid Modeling Core, systems and
Techniques Computer aided Design
(PE)
Mechatronics, IoT Systems and Technology Mechatronics (PE)
Biomechanical
systems Systems and Techniques Principles of Biomechanics
(PE)
Intermediate
Mechanics of Solids Core Intermediate Mechanics of
Solids (PE)
Control system Systems and Techniques Control Systems (PE)
Experimental
Robotics Systems and Techniques Experimental Robotics (PE)
Links, mechanisms
and dynamics in
vehicles Systems Vehicle dynamics (PE)
Theory of sound
generation, sound
propagation and
sound reception. Systems Introduction to Acoustics
(PE)
Manufacturing Forming
Technology Core and Technology Fundamentals of Metal
Forming Technology (PE)
Casting, Welding
and Forming Core and Techniques Casting, Welding and
Forming (PC)
Production and
Operations
Management Core and Techniques Production and Operations
Management (PC)
Machining Science
and Metrology Core and Techniques Machining Science and
Inspection Technology (PC)
Smart
Manufacturing Core and Techniques Smart Manufacturing (PC)
Digital fabrication Core and Techniques Digital Fabrication (PC)
Manufacturing Lab Core and Techniques Manufacturing Process and
Systems Lab (PC)
Machining Lab Core and Techniques Machining and Automated
Manufacturing Lab (PC)
Casting and Allied
Processes Core and Technology Casting and Allied
Processes (PE)
Welding Science
and Technology Core and Technology Welding Science and
Technology (PE)
Micro-Nano
Manufacturing Core and Technology Micro-Nano Manufacturing
(PE)
Design and
Manufacturing of
Bio Materials Core and Technology Design and Manufacturing
of Bio Materials (PE)

Computer
Integrated
Manufacturing Core and Technology Computer Integrated
Manufacturing (PE)
Non Traditional
Machining Process Core and Technology Non Traditional Machining
Process (PE)
Tool Design Core and Technique Tool Design (PE)
Applied Ergonomics Core and Technology Applied Ergonomics (PE)
Design for X Core and Technology Design for X (PE)
Welding metallurgy Core and Technology Welding Metallurgy (PE)
Thermofluids Fluid Statics,
Kinetics, Dynamics,
Inviscid Theory,
Viscous Flow,
Turbulence and
Compressible flow
Fundamentals Core and Techniques Fluid Mechanics (PC)
Conduction,
Convection,
Radiation, Boiling &
Condensation, Heat
Exchanger Core and Techniques Heat and Mass Transfer
(PC)
Thermodynamics Core Thermodynamics (PC)
Heat engines and
Power Plant Cycles,
Turbomachines,
Refrigeration and
Air-conditioning Systems and Technique Thermofluids Engineering
(PC)
Parallel computing
techniques Systems and Technique Introduction to parallel
computing (PE)
Turbines, pumps
and compressors Systems and Technique Turbomachinery (PE)
Combustion driven
engines for
automobiles Systems and Technique Automotive Propulsion(PE)
Refrigeration cycles
and air-conditioning
systems Systems and Technique Refrigeration and Air-
conditioning(PE)
Cycles in power
plant and energy
conversion systems Systems and Technique Power Plant
Engineering(PE)
Fluid dynamics in
porous media Core and Technique Porous media flows and
applications(PE)
Computational
techniques for heat
and fluid dlow Core and Technique Introduction to
Computational Heat and
Fluid Flow(PE)
Advanced Fluid Core Advanced Fluid Mechanics

Mechanics (PE)
Solar syatems Technique and Technology Solar Thermal Systems
Smart Sensors Technology Smart Sensors & Soft
Computing(PE)