SOURCE_PDF: 3554fb55f5c3_IITJ_20Annual_20Report_English_FY2020_21.pdf

ANNUAL 
REPORT
2020-21
Indian Institute of 
Technology Jodhpur

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Annual Report

Preface 05
Vision, Mission & Goals 06
Board of Governors 08
Finance Committee 09
Senate 10
Buildings and Works Committee 13
Key Functionaries 14
The Institute 17
Organization of Academic and Research Activities 18
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering 19
Department of Civil & Infrastructure Engineering 37
Department of Chemical Engineering 39
Department of Chemistry 42
Department of Computer Science & Engineering 56
Department of Electrical Engineering 69
Department of Humanities & Social Sciences 86
Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering 91
Department of Mathematics 93
Department of Mechanical Engineering 96
Department of Physics 112
School of Management & Entrepreneurship (SME) 123
School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science (AIDE) 132
IDRP - Digital Humanities (DH) 136
IDRP - Internet of Things (IoT) & Applications 138
IDRP - Quantum Information and Computation (QIC) 142
IDRP - Robotics & Mobility Systems (RMS) 144
IDRP - Smart Health Care (SHC) 146
IDRP - Science of Intelligence (SoI) 151
IDRP - Space Science & Technologies (SST) 153
Centre for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development 155
Centre for Technology Foresight and Policy 160
Technology Innovation and Start-up Centre (TISC) 161
Collaborative Activities of TISC with JCKIC 167
Jodhpur City Knowledge and Innovation Cluster (JCKIC) 169
Staff Members 171
New Initiatives 173
Table of Contents

Academics 178
Academics Programs 179
Ph.D. Theses Defense 181
Collaborations 184
Research 188
R&D Projects 189
Consultancy Projects 199
Sponsored Fellowship Projects 201
Other Projects 202
Completed Projects 203
Key of sponsoring agencies 206
Patents & Publications 208
Awards & Recognitions 234
Events 240
Facilities 249
Our Campus 251
Computer Centre 262
Centre for Advanced Scientific Equipment (CASE) 264
Library 266
OBC Cell 268
SC-ST Cell 269
Primary Health Centre 270
Sports Facilities 271
Students Activities 273
Student Council 274
Student Accolades 279
Student Wellbeing 282
Career Development Cell 285
Alumni Relations 288
Registered Students in IIT Jodhpur 293
Financial Position 294

Professor Santanu Chaudhury
Director, IIT Jodhpur
4
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Preface
Despite the COVID Pandemic during 2020-21, IIT Jodhpur has 
progressed on all fronts, including infrastructure, academics, 
research, and technology development. Institute has taken several 
steps to facilitate online academic ecosystem, like organising 
workshops on online pedagogy and setting up of processes for 
informal connect with the students through online extra-curricular 
and co-curricular events. Adequate measures were taken to 
manage COVID situation in the campus through extensive testing, 
managing isolation facility, ensuring medical care and arranging 
vaccination camps so that students on campus as well as campus 
residents remain safe. This year IIT Jodhpur has adopted a new 
vision, mission, and strategic plan for the institute. Two new 
schools, namely, School of Management & Entrepreneurship 
and the School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science have 
been established and they have become completely functional 
with induction of new faculty members and operation of newly 
introduced academic programmes. The Institute has embarked 
on an ambitious mission to establish itself as one of the top 
destinations in the country for a wholesome education with the 
right mix of flexible academics, cutting-edge research, curiosity-
driven innovation and a curriculum built on technology foresight. 
We look forward to another eventful year and continue our journey 
of progress and national development.
5
Annual Report 2020_21

IIT Jodhpur
Vision, Mission & Goals
Vision
A future-driven institute for nurturing 
excellence of thought; creating, preserving, 
and imparting knowledge; and using 
transformational technologies/interventions 
with a multidisciplinary approach for 
responding to societal challenges and 
aspirations.
Mission
•	
Foster humanitarian values, passion for learning, 
and creativity in faculty and students
•	
Move towards high quality, futuristic 
educational, and research ecosystem
•	
Develop socially responsible faculty, students, 
and future leaders, committed to creating a self-
reliant India
•	
Catalyze a professional internal culture along 
with enabling infrastructure and ancillary 
services
•	
Forge effective national as well as international 
collaboration and partnership with industry and 
academia for diverse purposes and activities.
Curriculum
To assimilate balanced, broad-based as well as specialized 
education in all curricula with opportunities for different 
kinds of students and their interests.
Pedagogy
To establish systems for dynamic development, 
implementation, and evaluation of futuristic pedagogy 
including blended-hybrid teaching and experiential 
learning.
Research
Have a globally engaged research ecosystem with state-of-
the-art facilities in place, for attaining leadership in research 
on academic, social, national, and industrial fronts while 
capitalizing on emerging and in-demand opportunities.
Outreach
To be the Institute of Choice for a lifelong learning journey 
of working professionals, alumni, and the community.
Institutional Collaboration
Have an efficient platform in place for forging impactful 
partnerships with academia, research institutes, business 
organizations, civil society, governments, and other 
agencies across the world for contributing to larger goals 
for humanity.
Industry Connect
Ensure ease of collaboration with industry for joint 
research/ projects, IPR development, technology transfer, 
and encouraging entrepreneurship/ startups, along with 
efficient supporting infrastructure and systems.
Goals
6
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Financial Plan
Set up innovative resource 
mobilization mechanisms and 
expenditure management systems, 
embedded in the internal budgetary 
processes, to have ample resources/ 
funds for actualizing the institute’s 
vision and goals.
Infrastructure
Institute will have secure, evolving 
futuristic digital and physical 
infrastructure and ancillary services 
to meet all its needs, along with 
knowledge infrastructure for 
supporting learning and enabling skill 
development.
Student Life Cycle
Students will find at IIT Jodhpur (i) 
a vibrant learning environment, 
with opportunities for excelling 
in curricular, co-curricular and 
extracurricular activities, (ii) an 
effective career development process 
for their successful initiation to the 
professions of their choice and (iii) a 
strong linkage with alumni through 
regular interactions, support for their 
lifelong learning and professional 
development; and enabling their 
active participation as a stakeholder in 
the affairs of the institute.
Agile Organization
Ensure that IITJ continues to be an 
agile organization for both stability 
and dynamism as a network of teams 
with a people-centric culture that 
operates through fast but considered 
decision cycles which are enabled by 
technology, and guided by a powerful 
common purpose to co-create value 
for all stakeholders of the institute.
7
Annual Report 2020_21

Board of Governors
Dr. R. Chidambaram
Chairman, BOG
DAE-Homi Bhabha Professor
Former Principal Scientific Adviser 
to Government of India
6th Floor, Central Complex
Trombay, Mumbai 400 085 
Email: rajachid@gov.in
Sh. P. G. Basak
Secretary to the BoG
Offg. Registrar
Indian Institute of Technology 
Jodhpur
N. H. 62, Nagaur Road
Karwad, Jodhpur 342 037
Email: registrar@iitj.ac.in
Additional Secretary 
(Technical Education)
Council Nominee
Department of Higher Education
Ministry of Education
118-C, Shastri Bhawan
New Delhi 110 001
Professor Sampat Raj 
Vadera
Senate Nominee on the Board of 
Governors
Head, Department of Physics
Indian Institute of Technology 
Jodhpur, N. H. 62, Nagaur Road
Karwad, Jodhpur 342 037
Email: srv@iitj.ac.in
Professor Santanu 
Chaudhury
Member (Ex-officio)
Director
Indian Institute of Technology 
Jodhpur
N. H. 62, Nagaur Road
Karwad, Jodhpur 342 037
Email: director@iitj.ac.in
Professor Narpat 
S. Shekhawat
Council Nominee
B131, Prithiviraj Nagar
Near Maharani Park
Pali Road
Jodhpur 342 001
Email: biotechunit@gmail.com
Professor Surajit Ghosh
Senate Nominee on the Board of 
Governors
Professor, Department of 
Bioscience & Bioengineering
Indian Institute of Technology 
Jodhpur, N. H. 62, Nagaur Road
Karwad, Jodhpur 342 037
Email: sghosh@iitj.ac.in
Professor Akhil Ranjan 
Garg
Council Nominee
Department of Electrical 
Engineering, Faculty of 
Engineering & Technology, Jai 
Narayan Vyas University
Jodhpur 342 011
Email: agarg@jnvu.edu.in
Shri Anil Bhavarlal Jain
Council Nominee
Vice Chairman
MD & CEO,
Jain Irrigation Systems,
Jalgaon 425 002
Email: jisl@lains.com
Chief Secretary
Member (Nominee of State 
Government)
Government of Rajasthan
Secretariat Jaipur 
Jaipur 302 005
Email: secretaryhte@gmail.com
8
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Finance Committee
Dr. R. Chidambaram
Chairman, FC
DAE-Homi Bhabha Professor
Former Principal Scientific Adviser 
to Government of India
6th Floor, Central Complex
Trombay, Mumbai 400 085
Email: rajachid@gov.in
Additional Secretary 
(Technical Education)
Member
Ministry of Education
Shastri Bhawan
New Delhi 110001
Email: ashe-mhrd@gov.in
Sh. P. G. Basak
Secretary to the Finance Committee
Offg. Registrar
Indian Institute of Technology 
Jodhpur, N. H. 62, Nagaur Road
Karwad, Jodhpur 342 037
Email: registrar@iitj.ac.in
Professor Santanu 
Chaudhury
Member (Ex-officio)
Director
Indian Institute of Technology 
Jodhpur, N. H. 62, Nagaur Road
Karwad, Jodhpur 342 037
Email: director@iitj.ac.in
Sh. Ashoke Guha
Member
CFO (MLCP JV)
Delhi International Airport 
P. Ltd, GMR Group
New Delhi 110 037
Email: ashoke_guha@yahoo.co.in
Mr. S. S. Bhandari, CA
Member
Non-Executive Director on the 
Board Bank of Baroda
P-7, Tilak Marg, C-Scheme
Jaipur 302 005
Email: bhandariss@hotmail.com
Joint Secretary and 
Financial Advisor (JS&FA)
Member
Integrated Finance Division (IFD)
Department of Higher Education
Ministry of Education
Shastri Bhavan 
New Delhi 110115
Email: jsfa.edu@gov.in
9
Annual Report 2020_21

The Director, Ex-officio, who shall be the Chairman
of the Senate Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur and Chairman, Senate
The Deputy Director, Ex-officio Vacant
Three persons, not being employees of the Institute,
to be nominated by the Chairman in consultation
with the Director, from among
educationists of repute, one each from the fields of
science, engineering and humanities; and Dr. Sanjeev Misra, Director, AIIMS Jodhpur
The professors appointed or recognized as such
by the Institute for the purpose of imparting
instruction in the Institute. Prof. S.R. Vadera, Deptt. of Physics
Three persons, not being employees of the Institute,
to be nominated by the Chairman in consultation
with the Director, from among educationists
of repute, one each from the fields of science,
engineering and humanities; and Dr. Sanjeev Misra, Director, AIIMS Jodhpur
Deans Prof. Surajit Ghosh, Dean (R&D)
Heads of the Departments or Schools as may be
established by the Institute. Department of Bioscience and Bioengineering
Senate
Constitution of Senate
10
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Heads of the Departments or Schools as may be
established by the Institute. Department of Mechanical Engineering
One or more members of academic from each of
the Departments and Schools, nominated by the
Chairman of the Senate, for a period of one year,
subject to a maximum of two persons from any
Department or School. Department of Bioscience and Bioengineering
11
Annual Report 2020_21

One or more members of academic from each of
the Departments and Schools, nominated by the
Chairman of the Senate, for a period of one year,
subject to a maximum of two persons from any
Department or School. Department of Mechanical Engineering
Two distinguished persons from the industry,
Research & Development, Financial Institutions and
any other comparable organizations, nominated
by the Chairman of the Senate, for a period of two
years. Dr. Souvik Bhattacharyya, Vice Chancellor,
BITS Pilani
Upto five student representatives nominated by
the Chairman of the Senate, as special invitees, for a
period of one year whose participation shall be for
the non-evaluation items of the Senate. 1. General Secretary, Students Gymkhana
2. Secretary, Academics & Career Society
3. Secretary, Elected Representatives Society Upto (04.03.2021)
1. General Secretary, Student Senate
2. General Secretary, Co-curricular Affairs
3. General Secretary, PG Academic Interaction Council
4. General Secretary, UG Academic Interaction Council
5. General Secretary, Hostel Affairs (w.e.f. 05.03.2021)
Invitees 1. Professor-in-charge (Faculty)
2. Associate Dean (Infrastructure) (upto 31.12.2020)
Professor-in-charge (Infrastructure) (w.e.f. 01.01.2021)
3. Associate Dean (Academics –UG)
4. Associate Dean (Academics –PG)
5. Associate Dean (Students)
6. Associate Dean (R&D)
7. Associate Dean (International Relations & Outreach)
8. Associate Dean (Planning & Resources Generation)
Secretary to the Senate Sh. P.G. Basak
Ofgf. Registrar
12
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Buildings and Works 
Committee
Professor Santanu 
Chaudhury
Chairman
Director
Indian Institute of Technology 
Jodhpur
NH 62, Nagaur Road
Karwad, Jodhpur 342037
Email: director@iitj.ac.in
Sh. Ramesh Chand Jain
Member
Additional Chief Engineer (Retd.)
KA-1, Bhagat Ki Kothi Extension, 
Pali Road
Jodhpur 342 003
Email: rameshjain1953@gmail.com
Sh. Anil Kumar Jain
Member
Flat 9-B, Tower -X, Meghdutam 
Apartments, Plot F-21C, Sector 50, 
NOIDA (UP) 201301
Mob: 9810826028 P- 0120 
4903191
Email: akjain54@yahoo.com
(w.e.f. 8.06.2020)
Professor Neeraj Gupta
Member
Department of Architecture, 
Central University of Rajasthan
NH-8, Bandar Sindri,
District Ajmer-305817
Email: ng@curaj.ac.in, ng2560@
yahoo.com
Dr. B. Ravindra
Member
Associate Dean (Infrastructure)
Indian Institute of Technology 
Jodhpur
NH 62, Nagaur Road
Karwad, Jodhpur 342037
Email: ravib@iitj.ac.in
(Tenure upto 31.12.2020)
Sh. P. G. Basak
Secretary to the B&WC
Officiating Registrar
Indian Institute of Technology 
Jodhpur
NH 62, Nagaur Road
Karwad, Jodhpur 342037
Email: registrar@iitj.ac.in
Professor B. Bhattacharjee
Member
Emeritus Professor
Department of Civil Engineering
Indian Institute of Technology 
Delhi, Hauz Khas
New Delhi – 110 016
Email: bishwa@civil.iitd.ac.in
Prof. Amitava Mitra
Member
Professor-in-charge 
(Infrastructure)
(w.e.f. 01.01.2021)
Chief Project Manager
Special Invitee
IIT Jodhpur Project Division
Central Public Works Department 
(CPWD)
Nirman Bhawan
Jodhpur 342011
eMail: cpmiitjpz.cpwd@gov.in
Mobile: (+91) 98181 80952
13
Annual Report 2020_21

Rakesh K. Sharma (upto 31.08.2020) Research & Development
Shree Prakash Tiwari (w.e.f. 01.09.2020) Research & Development
Suril V. Shah Academics (UG Programs)
Somnath Ghosh Academics (PG Programs)
Samanwita Pal Students
Deepak Fulwani Planning & Resource Generation
Kaushal Kumar A. Desai International Relations & Outreach
B. Ravindra Infrastructure (Upto 31.12.2020)
Key Functionaries
Department of Bioscience and Bioengineering
Dr. Meenu Chhabra
Department of Chemical Engineering
Prof. P. K. Tewari
Department of Chemistry
Dr. Ritu Gupta (Upto 31.08.2020)
Dr. Manikandan Paranjothy (w.e.f. 01.09.2020)
Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Dr. Gaurav Harit (Upto 31.08.2020)
Prof. Richa Singh (w.e.f. 01.09.2020)
Department of Electrical Engineering
Dr. Anil Kumar Tiwari (Upto 31.08.2020)
Dr. Arun Kumar Singh (w.e.f. 01.09.2020)
Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Dr. Ankita Sharma
Department of Mathematics
Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar (Upto 31.08.2020)
Dr. Puneet Sharma (w.e.f. 01.09.2020)
Details of various key functionaries of the Institute are as follow:
14
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

C. Venkatesan Faculty
S. R. Vadera Stores & Purchase
Amitava Mitra Infrastructure Engineering (w.e.f. 01.01.2021)
P. G. Basak Advisor (Admin) & Ofgf. Registrar
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Dr. Prodyut R. Chakraborty
Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
Prof. B. P. Kashyap
Department of Physics
Prof. S.R. Vadera
Department of Civil & Infrastructure Engineering
Dr. Ranju Mohan
School of Management & Entrepreneurship
Prof. Atanu Ghosh (upto 04.02.2021)
Dr. Krishna Kumar Balaraman (w.e.f. 05.02.2021)
School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science
Presently, Director, IIT Jodhpur
Centre for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development
Dr. Anand K. Plappally
Centre for Technology Foresight & Policy
Dr. Deepak M. Fulwani
IDRP
Dr. S. C. Bose (w.e.f. 1.1.2021)
15
Annual Report 2020_21

Amardeep Sharma Estate Officer
Amardeep Sharma Public Relations Officer
Amardeep Sharma, (upto 10.01.2021) Central Public Information Officer
Ananya Debnath Nodal Officer, Unnat Bharat Abhiyan
Appala Naidu Gandi Nodal Officer for OBC, PwD, and Minorities
Atul Kumar Green Initiatives Officer
S. C. Bose Transparency Officer
Gaurav Bhatnagar Liaison Officer, National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF)
Gaurav Harit Chief Vigilance Officer
Kshema Prakash Nodal Officer, All India Survey on Higher Education (AISHE)
Meenu Chhabra Nodal Officer, Swachh Bharat Abhiyan
Priyanka Singh Nodal Officer, Vigyan Jyoti Program
Puneet Sharma Hindi Officer
Rakesh K. Sharma Nodal Officer, IMRPINT India Program
Ramesh K. Metre Liaison Officer for SC and ST
Ritu Gupta Nodal Officer, GIAN Program
Shree Prakash Tiwari Liaison Officer for EWS
Sandip Murarka Nodal Officer, DAAD Scholarships Program
Somnath Ghosh Nodal Officer, Study in India Program
Sudipto Mukhopadhyay Nodal Officer, Ishaan Vikas Program
Sudipto Mukhopadhyay Nodal Officer, Undergraduate Research Initiative (UGRI)
16
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

The Institute

The Institute has organized its academic and research 
activities to be conducted through the following Departments, 
Interdisciplinary Programs (IDRPs), Schools and Centres, whose 
details are given in the pages to follow:
Departments
1. Bioscience & Bioengineering
2. Chemical Engineering
3. Chemistry
4. Civil & Infrastructure Engineering
5. Computer Science & Engineering
6. Electrical Engineering
7. Humanities & Social Sciences
8. Mathematics
9. Mechanical Engineering
10. Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
11. Physics Centres
Interdisciplinary Research 
Platforms (IDRPs)
1. Digital Humanities
2. IoT & Applications
3. Quantum Information and Computation
4. Robotics and Mobility Systems
5. Science of Intelligence
6. Smart Healthcare
7. Space Technologies
Schools
1. School of Management & Entrepreneurship
2. School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science
Centres
1. Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable 
Development
2. Center for Technology Foresight and Policy
3. Technology Innovation & Start-up Centre
4. Jodhpur City Knowledge & Innovation Centre
Organization of Academic and 
Research Activities
18
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Department of Bioscience & 
Bioengineering
The Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering aspires to cater 
to the technological requirements of the country by conducting 
high-quality, translatable research in cutting edge areas and 
by training our students to be technological innovators in 
biological sciences.
The Department currently offers a B.Tech. Program in 
Bioengineering and post-graduate (M.Tech., M.Tech.-Ph.D. 
dual degree & Ph.D. programs) in Bioscience & Bioengineering.
In these programs, Students are exposed to state-of-the-art 
research infrastructure, where they undergo hands-on training. 
The focus of research efforts of the department is on developing 
technological solutions in the areas of healthcare, environment 
and agriculture. The faculty members associated with the 
Department pursue solutions to complex biological problems in 
the fields of:
The department actively collaborates with other departments 
of the Institute as well as with other National and International 
institutions of higher learning to maximize research and 
teaching outcomes. The department has received research 
funding from premier funding agencies in India, namely, 
Ministry of Human Resource Development, Department of
Science & Technology, Department of Biotechnology, Board of 
Research in Nuclear Science, Science & Engineering Board, and 
DBT/Wellcome Trust India Alliance.
Following are the Faculty Members associated with the 
department:
19
Annual Report 2020_21

Faculty Members & Research Areas
Meenu Chhabra
Head of Department
Biological Science 
& Bio-Engineering: 
Renewable Bioenergy 
Bioremediation
Shankar 
Manoharan
Molecular 
Microbiology, Host-
Microbe Interaction, 
Genomics and 
Metagenomics
Amit Kumar 
Mishra
Cellular and Molecular 
Neuroscience, Cell 
Cycle Regulation and 
Cancer
Sushmita Jha
Cellular and Molecular 
Neuroscience, Cell and 
Molecular Physiology
Priyanka Singh
Cellular and Molecular 
Biology
Neha Jain
Molecular Biophysics 
and Microbiology
Sushmita Paul
Computational Biology 
and Bioinformatics
Surajiit Ghosh
Chemical Neurobiology, 
Chemical Biology and 
Cancer Biology
Indranil Banerjee
Tissue Engineering; 
Regenerative 
medicine; Biomaterials 
Theranostic systems; 
Biomicrofluidic
Pankaj Yadav
Statistical Genetics and 
Big Data Analytics
Sudipta 
Bhattacharyya
Structural Biology; 
Enzyme Chemistry and 
Protein Engineering
Raviraj Vankayala
Nanobiotechnology; 
Biomaterials and 
Photomedicine
20
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Neeraj Jain
Neuroscience/Mammalian 
Sensory and Motor 
Systems; 
Tactile Information 
Processing; Brain Plasticity; 
Spinal Cord Injuries; 
Brain-Computer Interface; 
Brain Networks
The following new faculty members joined the department during this financial year.
Faculty Members & Research Areas
The following laboratories are functioning in the Bioscience and Bioengineering department.
21
Annual Report 2020_21

1. Cell and Molecular Physiology
Groups under this theme
As an institute of national importance, the philosophy remains 
alignment with research problems relevant to the nation. In this 
regard it is strategized to work on two leading healthcare issues 
in India; environmental pollution with nanosilica and cancer 
(specifically the deadly brain tumours: gliomas). As one seeks to 
understand the genetic landscape of cancer and inflammation 
related diseases in the Indian subcontinent, it is believed, an 
interdisciplinary approach that comes naturally at an IIT would 
help provide critical insights into complex disease biology.
In this regard, the laboratory has established collaborations 
with colleagues from within the department of bioscience and 
bioengineering, within the institute (department of computer 
science, mechanical engineering and humanities & social 
sciences) and across institutions (AIIMS Jodhpur and ACTREC, 
Mumbai). This lab is also a part of the interdisciplinary research 
platform (IDRP) groups in Smart healthcare and Science of 
Intelligence.
1. Inflammation, Immunity & Tumor Biology Group
22
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

2. Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory
A patent has been filed for the portable hypoxia chamber that 
has been developed at IIT Jodhpur. The process of translating 
this technology with the help of Industry partners is underway. 
Assistance has been provided to colleagues from Defense Lab 
Jodhpur in evaluating wound dressing properties of chitin 
membranes containing nanosilver and it has been published 
in Biomedical Physics & Engineering Express, IOP Science, 
Volume 4, Number 2, 2018, https://doi.org/10.1088/2057-
1976/aaa9ca. Recently funding has been received from the 
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (Meity) 
for development of an interdisciplinary research platform 
for dissecting the complex cellular interactions using human 
tumor derived spheroids, computational biology and artificial 
intelligence-based approaches.
1.	
Cell culture facility
2.	
Fluorescence microscope
3.	
Liquid nitrogen storage system
4.	
-20 °C freezer
5.	
Gel documentation system
6.	
-80 °C freezer
7.	
Microplate reader
8.	
Nanodrop spectrophotometer
9.	
Realtime PCR
10. Thermal cycler
11. Portable hypoxia chamber
12. Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory
Environmental biotechnology thematic lab at IIT Jodhpur 
focusses on applications of microorganisms to curb 
environmental pollution, provide clean energy, and remediate 
toxic or hazardous waste. The versatile microbial metabolism 
enables their utilization for environmental cleanup. Another
critical focus is waste to energy conversion systems, in 
particular, bioelectrochemical systems which combine the 
versatility of microbial metabolism with electrochemistry. The 
bioelectrochemical systems can also serve as biosensors for 
environmental monitoring and assessment.
23
Annual Report 2020_21

Groups under this theme
The Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory at IIT 
Jodhpur carries out research in the areas of bioenergy and 
bioremediation. Researchers in the lab investigate waste 
to energy conversion processes to develop sustainable 
biotechnological solutions to water pollution and energy. 
At present, successful bioremediation processes for nitrate, 
uranium (VI), saline starch, and chromium (VI) contaminated 
water have been developed. Besides, low-cost Microbial Carbon 
Capture cells for power generation and algae cultivation 
have been developed. Also, researchers in the lab have been 
successful in isolating novel yeast with characteristics of the 
potential biodiesel producer.
1.	
Multi-vessel fermenter
2.	
Photobioreactor
3.	
Algal growth chamber
4.	
Electrochemical workstation
5.	
Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis system
6.	
Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis
1. Bioenergy & Bioremediation Group
3. Biomaterials & Tissue Engineering Laboratory
24
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Groups under this theme
Biomaterials and Tissue Engineering is a transdisciplinary 
knowledge domain and encompasses sub domains of 
material science, chemistry, physics, cell and molecular 
biology, chemical engineering, mechanical engineering, 
nanotechnology and microfluidics. Rapid evolution of 
biomaterials and tissue engineering is driven by the growing 
needs of medical devices, implants, drug delivery vehicles, 
and engineered tissues. Biomaterials and Tissue engineering
has now become an integral component of the translational 
research in bioengineering. Research under the thematic 
area of Biomaterials and Tissue Engineering at Department of 
Bioscience and Bioengineering, IIT Jodhpur is primarily focused 
on the synthesis and characterization of smart biomaterials 
and nanomaterials, nanomedicine and nanotheranostics, drug 
delivery, engineering of tissue graft, organ-on-a chip devices, 
therapeutic angiogenesis and regenerative medicine.
1. Integrative Tissue Engineering Group
The focus of the Integrative Tissue Engineering Laboratory is 
to decipher the underlying mechanism of tissue repair and 
regeneration over a length scale of ‘micro to nano’
, and to 
translate the understanding into bioengineering strategies for 
tissue engineering and regenerative medicine. Precisely, the 
lab aims to address three fundamental questions. Firstly, what 
are the novel clues (universal or cell specific) that contributes
significantly to the physiological processes related to tissue 
repair and regeneration; secondly, how these different cues/
factors co-exist, modulate and cooperate in tissue repair and 
regeneration and finally, up to what certainty such factors can 
be manipulated spatio-temporally to engineer the outcome of 
tissue engineering and regenerative medicine.
In pursuance of the goal, a trans-disciplinary approach has been 
adopted that involves strategic amalgamation of the knowledge 
and techniques of cell biology, regenerative biology, biomaterial 
science, microfluidics, nanotechnology and tissue engineering. 
The benefit of such an approach is that it is comprehensive and 
integrative in nature like any complex physiological process. It 
is believed that the integrative approach will help us to gain a 
deep insight and comprehensive understanding of tissue repair 
and regeneration. Furthermore, such an approach will make 
tissue engineering an affordable, reproducible and safe health 
care technology in near future for on-demand production of the 
so-called spare parts of the human body.
In line with the goal, the following problems are being deduced:
(i)	
Deciphering the mechanism of angiogenesis and tuning of 
the biomaterial mediated angiogenic response
(ii) Mechanistic analysis of osteogenic differentiation and 
biomaterial induced osteogenesis
(iii) Reconstruction of cell-friendly 3D microarchitecture 
with reproducible design parameters for bone tissue 
engineering.
(iv) Synthesis and characterization of cell derived membrane 
vesicles and understanding of its regenerative potential.
(v) Development of organ-on-chip to probe the cellular cross 
talk
25
Annual Report 2020_21

2. Nanomedicine and Biomaterials Group
Nature performs difficult tasks with perfection ensuring 
great simplicity and efficiency. Can the nature be mimiced 
to tailor different materials that can be used to diagnose and 
treat diverse diseases? Therein lies the focus and the passion 
behind this research. Here at Nanomedicine and Biomaterials 
Laboratory, new generation multi-functional nanomedicines 
and biomaterials which have tremendous potential to address 
challenges in tackling diseases are developed. The focus areas 
are on the development of inorganic nanomaterials for cancer
theranostics (diagnostics and therapeutics), polymeric and 
biomimetic delivery systems, biomaterials for modulation of 
tumor microenvironment, biomaterials for immunoengineering, 
and nanomaterials for gene therapy. This is highly 
interdisciplinary, as the research is mainly positioned at the 
intersection of engineering, biology, and medicine, and a variety 
of collaborators work together to translate these materials 
towards clinical use.
Chemical Biology by definition known as a scientific discipline 
across the fields of chemistry and biology that includes 
application of chemical techniques, tools and synthetic 
compounds for the study and manipulation of biological 
systems. Chemical Biology research theme originated in the 
1990s.
Since then Chemical Biology area has been evolved through 
key discoveries (mammalian RNAi, kinase inhibitors, ribosome 
structure, activity-based probes, genetic code reprogramming, 
imatinib becomes a drug, automated carbohydrate synthesis, 
in situ click chemistry, design of a novel protein fold, origins of 
amyloidogenesis, personalized medicine, chemical regulators
of stem cells, GTP analogues for controlling microtubule 
dynamics, chemical platforms for understanding microtubule 
organization and dynamics, chemical regulator for controlling 
microtubule dynamics etc.) across the multiple disciplines 
and considered as “molten state” that gradually transformed 
into the steep trajectory towards a stable but dynamic form 
of research field. In the last three decades there have been 
extraordinary developments in our understanding of highly 
complex biological systems through disruptive technological 
interventions and multidisciplinary efforts.
4. Chemical Biology Laboratory
26
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Microtubules perform a large number of functions in neurons 
such as cargo transport, neuronal migration, maintaining 
polarized structures, to name a few. Microtubule stability is not 
only critical for the neuronal polarization process fundamental 
to their development and plasticity, but has a role in the 
development of neurodegenerative diseases. For example, 
in Alzheimer’s disease, microtubule lattice is disrupted due 
to microtubule-associated tau hyperphosphorylation, which 
causes microtubule destabilization compromising neuronal 
architecture. This laboratory has studied the importance of 
microtubule stabilization in neuro-degenerative disorders 
especially AD by studying the molecular interactions between 
some novel ligands with the microtubule lattice. These 
molecular interactions are crucial and hold translational value 
as the microtubule stabilization conferred by them halts the 
progression of neurodegenerative diseases and its associated 
symptoms. In order to study these molecular interactions, the 
laboratory has developed a facile and low-cost neurosphere 
based organoid model generated from primary cortical and 
hippocampal neurons. These neurospheres behave like mini 
brains with a heterogeneous population of cells consisting of 
glial cells, neurons, neural stem and progenitor cells bearing 
a closer resemblance to the human brain. Due to a rich 
population of neural progenitor cells (NPCs) and neural stem
cells (NSCs), along with AD models or other neurodegenerative 
disease models, they could be also used to study neural 
development and differentiation. Moreover, this laboratory has 
also developed a blood brain barrier (BBB) permeability model 
in order to study the BBB permeability of the potent ligands that 
shows interaction with the neuronal microtubules. (ACS Chem. 
Neurosci. 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020; etc).
Transfection or gene delivery in eukaryotic cells is one of the key 
tools in biological sciences and though lipofectamine have been 
traditionally used for this purpose, low transfection efficiency 
and poor reproducibility have turned scientists to look for more 
efficient non-viral transfection agents. A peptide Pep1 during 
its Phase III clinical trial was found to cause amyloidogenicity 
in the brain. This laboratory extracted a non-amyloidogenic 
short tetra-peptide sequence from this Pep1 and studied its 
cellular entry and nuclear localization properties. This sequence 
not only had excellent nuclear localization with an inept 
ability to interact with the major groove of DNA, it also raised a 
fundamentally important question regarding the role of spatial 
position of tryptophan in regulating cell entry. This laboratory 
successfully reported a new breed as future transfection agents 
for gene delivery (J Am Chem Soc. 2018; ChemComm 2018, 
2019).
Groups under this theme
1. Chemical Microtubule Biology Group
This laboratory is focussing on multidisciplinary research 
problems mostly targeting microtubule and allied key 
intracellular targets. Microtubule has been an attractive 
molecular target to understand fundamental biochemistry 
and for the development of anticancer drugs, given its 
importance as a key cytoskeleton filament and its crucial role
in many biochemical processes. Notably, microtubules as a 
target for the development of neuro-therapeutics is relatively 
unexplored. This laboratory focuses on finer role of microtubule 
in neurodegeneration and cancer, and possible intervention 
through carefully chosen routes.
27
Annual Report 2020_21

Due to the limited regenerative properties of the brain, repairing 
TBI patients is an immediate challenge. Thus, this laboratory 
has tried to understand this repair mechanism by exogenously 
applying a biocompatible neuro-protective hydrogel on 
the injury region in the brain of the injured mice generated 
through cryogenic injury model (CIM). In 7 days, the hydrogels 
reported a total recovery of the injury, with the injury being 
hardly visible in the cresyl violet stained brain slices and has 
lower activation of microglia (iba1), an important injury marker. 
(ACS Chem. Neurosci. 2019, 2020; ACS Biomaterials Science 
and Engineering, 2020). This laboratory has already provided
significant insights into the microtubule dynamics of cancer 
cells through perturbation of the tubulin dynamics using novel 
molecular ligands. Many of these perturbations by the ligands 
resulted in efficient anti-cancer activity either through tubulin 
polymerization or depolymerization in cellular and animal 
models with emphasis on their detailed mechanistic pathways 
of action. This exposes the translational power of these ligands 
and their interactions calling for future clinical advancement in 
cancer biology (Mol. Pharmaceutics 2019, Langmuir 2018, Adv 
Healthcare Mater. 2017, ACS Appl Mater Interfaces, 2016, 2017).
Microbial cells living in the human gut outnumber the total 
human cells in our bodies. Also, one is regularly exposed 
to several microbes from the environment. It is therefore 
essential to understand the biology of microbes that may be 
beneficial to us as well as those, which are potentially harmful. 
Using molecular methods, an attempt is made to understand 
the basic functioning of individual microbial cells as well as 
microbial communities. Microbes shift to a community mode of
growth, often under stressed conditions, by forming biofilms. 
Biofilms can be polymicrobial and are difficult to eliminate 
as they are resistant to stresses that individual bacteria are 
sensitive to. A small group of researchers working under this 
theme use molecular methods and genomics approaches to 
understand the physiology of individual microbes as well as 
their communities.
5. Molecular Microbiology & Microbial Genomics 
Laboratory
28
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Groups under this theme
1. Microbial Physiology Group
2. Biofilms & Amyloid Biology Group
The Microbial Physiology laboratory (MPL) has two major focus 
areas:
1.	
Virulence regulation in hospital-associated pathogens
We study how microbes control the production of important 
factors that are necessary to cause disease in a host.
2.	
Medically relevant microbial communities
We explore the human gut microbiota in the context 
of health and diseased states to identify patterns that 
contribute to a better physiological state
This is an exclusive group with diverse yet overlapping interests. 
The research in the lab revolves around the altered folding 
of proteins which leads to formation of ordered aggregates 
called amyloids. This group is interested in understanding 
how bacterial amyloids contribute to biofilm formation and 
severe infections in humans. The group uses a combination of 
biophysical techniques to elucidate the mechanism of formation 
and inhibition of amyloid-dependent biofilm by bacteria under 
different environmental conditions. Currently, the experimental
plan is limited to in vitro studies however in the future the study 
will be extended into cell culture and animal-based models. The 
group is interested, but not limited to the following aspects of 
bacterial amyloids:
1. Understanding formation of microbial amyloids and their 
role in biofilm infections.
2. Development of strategies to combat amyloid-derived 
biofilm formation.
29
Annual Report 2020_21

1.	
AKTA protein purification system
2.	
Probe sonicator
3.	
Multi-mode plate reader
4.	
Microvolume fluorometer
5.	
Electrophoresis systems with blotting apparatus
6.	
Hybridization oven
7.	
Microplate reader
8.	
Laboratory workstation
9.	
Bacteriological incubators
10. Incubator shakers
11. Refrigerated centrifuge
“Seeing is believing” … according to this famous quote, 
visual inspection paves the most convincing way to divulge 
naturally occurring phenomena. In the Structural Biology 
and Protein Engineering lab, we aim to elucidate complex 
biological phenomena by unraveling the molecular snapshots 
of the concerned pathways through the atomic resolution
structures of the macromolecules involved. For this purpose, 
we principally use the cutting-edge tools of structural biology 
(X-ray diffraction crystallography and single particle Cryo-
Electron microscopy) to define the structure-function behavior 
of biological macromolecules.
6. Biophysics Laboratory
Groups under this theme
1. Structural Biology & Protein Engineering Group
The main focus is to deduce the molecular mechanism of 
diseased conditions. Likewise, taking a reductionist’s approach 
we target proteins or protein complexes involved in disease 
progression and pathogenesis to reveal their molecular 
mechanism of action. The detailed three-dimensional structural 
information gained thereof, not only pinpoint the role of 
the target proteins/protein complexes but also help design 
structure-based lead inhibitor libraries against these potential 
drug target candidates. Further kinetic characterization of these 
potential inhibitor leads against the drug candidate proteins
is performed to validate their antagonistic properties in vitro. 
The structural biology and protein engineering lab also aims 
industrially important enzymes to customize their structure-
function to cater industrial needs. The high-resolution structural 
information of the industrially important protein(s)/enzymes(s) 
also enable us to gain significant insights into their structure-
function relationships which in turn allow to tailor their function 
by the state-of-the-art protein engineering and bioinformatic 
tools.
30
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

2. Protein Aggregation & Amyloid Biology Group
The lab is interested in understanding the altered folding of 
proteins which leads to formation of ordered aggregates called 
amyloids. Amyloids are highly stable ordered cross-β-sheet 
aggregates of proteins which are considered as the hallmark of
neurodegenerative disorders like Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s. 
We are interested in looking at amyloids that have both 
functional and disease-associated properties.
The lab utilizes various biophysical, biochemical and 
microbiological tools to answer some of the fascinating 
questions pertaining to amyloids fibrils. Understanding two 
aspects of human amyloids as under are of particular interest to 
this group:
1. How bacterial amyloids influence the aggregation 
of human amyloids and contribute to progression of 
neurodegenerative diseases?
2. Development of unconventional strategies to modulate 
amyloid formation in humans.
Computational Biology and Bioinformatics is a rapidly 
developing multidisciplinary field. There has been a great 
increase in the amount of biomedical data over the past decade. 
Along with the expanding application of large-scale genomic 
sequencing, other modalities such as mobile health (mHealth) 
data and imaging have added to the rise. At the same time, 
computing power and storage capacity have continued to
increase, allowing us to now mine and model biological data 
with unprecedented ability. The research activities include 
computational modeling of biological processes, computational 
management of large-scale data sets, database development 
and data-mining, algorithm development and high-
performance computing, as well as statistical and mathematical 
analyses.
7. Computational Biology & Bioinformatics Laboratory
Groups under this theme
1. Computational Biology Group
Computational Biology Lab (CBL) is established to carry 
out fundamental and advanced research in the fields of 
computational biology and bioinformatics. Dr. Sushmita Paul’s 
research group carries out research in multi-omics data analysis,
development of pattern recognition algorithms for analysing 
high dimensional biological data, analysis of genome variation, 
development and application of bioinformatics tools. The 
group is actively involved in development of algorithms for
31
Annual Report 2020_21

2. Life Science Informatics & Statistics Group
identification of miRNA-mRNA modules in various diseases by 
using multi-omics data. Another important challenge related 
to multi-omics data analysis is classification of cancer subtypes. 
In this regard, the group has developed an algorithm for 
effectively classifying the cancer samples into their respective 
sub-types. The group is also involved in functional annotation 
of genomic variants in the Indian population, sub-grouping 
of the Indian population based on genetic variants. The group 
is also focusing on development of an AI based framework to 
predict patient outcome to treatment based on patient biopsy
derived tumour spheroid. The group also developed several 
algorithms/frameworks to identify Type II diabetes genes by 
judiciously integrating gene expression data and protein-
protein interaction network data. The CB Lab also conducted an 
international workshop on Recent Advances in Biomedical Data 
Analysis at Olsztyn, Poland, 2017 (http://ijcrs2017.uwm.edu.
pl/?page_id=190). In 2019, the lab organized a national level 
workshop on Computational Biology and Bioinformatics at IIT 
Jodhpur.
32
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

“Almost all aspects of life 
are engineered at the 
molecular level, and without 
understanding molecules 
we can only have a very 
sketchy understanding of life 
itself” (Francis Crick, Nobel 
Laureate). The mechanical 
work for the cell is performed 
by the molecular motors 
along the cell cytoskeleton. 
The thematic group is 
focused on understanding 
these molecular motors and 
cell motility in the healthy & 
diseased states.
8. Molecular Motors & Cell Motility Lab
Recent advancements in technologies have generated huge 
amounts of biological and clinical data for researchers. This 
wealth of data poses challenges that have never before 
been confronted. At the heart of these is understanding how 
massive biological data sets are best analyzed to discover 
new knowledge about the function of living systems in health 
and disease, and how this knowledge can be harnessed to 
provide improved, more affordable health care. To this end, 
sophisticated tools are needed to manage and analyse such a 
large volume of the data sets. This research group is dedicated 
to develop advanced statistical and computational methods 
for drawing statistically valid inference from biological and
clinical data. Inter-individual differences by large-scale statistical 
modelling and integrating multiple layers of OMICS data are 
studied.
1.	
Servers
2.	
Workstations
3.	
Desktops
Software Developed
Groups under this theme
1. Centrosome Biology Group
33
Annual Report 2020_21

Centrosomes are molecular machineries which are involved 
in a plethora of cell functions like spindle organization, cell 
migration and cell polarization. Their number, position, 
organization & functioning is precisely regulated in a cell. Any 
defect in centrosome structure or number could lead to several 
human diseases like cancer, neurodevelopmental disorders 
and ciliopathies. The Centrosome Biology group is utilizing a 
combination of cellular, molecular and biochemical approaches, 
in order to understand the molecular details of centrosome 
organization in mammalian cells.
1.	
Cell culture facility
2.	
Biosafety cabinet
3.	
Inverted light microscope
4.	
-20 °C freezer
5.	
Nanodrop spectrophotometer
6.	
-80 °C freezer
7.	
Gradient thermal cycler
8.	
Bacteriological incubator
9.	
Electrophoresis systems
10. Refrigerated centrifuge
Detailed observation and scientific study of Neuroscience 
defines the structure and function of the nervous system. Major 
objective of the current thematic lab is to find the answers 
of hidden challenges linked with the new reports that can 
directly contribute and enhance our current understanding of
how the nervous system works. It is also critical to understand 
the molecular defects, repair and restore the neural systems. 
Neuroengineering research targets those complex interface 
problems of living neural tissues and engineering techniques of 
non-living constructs.
9. Neuroscience & Neuroengineering Laboratory
34
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Groups under this theme
1. Cellular & Molecular Neurobiology Unit
Tight control of numerous cellular pathways is a vast and 
responsible task. To facilitate the research, various latest 
biochemical techniques that enable to explore functional 
aspects of E3 Ubiquitin Ligases biology in a comprehensive way 
are being combined. Current efforts strive for identification, 
assessment, and characterization of E3 Ubiquitin Ligases 
substrates linked with the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative
diseases, neurodevelopmental disorders, and cancer. The 
overall goal of our Research group on Cellular and Molecular 
Neurobiology is to understand how a confidential network of 
cellular quality control mechanism (Autophagy and Ubiquitin 
Proteasome System linked with neurodegeneration and 
imperfect ageing, and how mutations that disrupt these 
processes impact disease development.
1.	
Cell culture facility
2.	
Floid cell imaging station
3.	
Inverted microscope
4.	
Gel dryer
5.	
Gel documentation system
6.	
-80 °C freezer
7.	
Single tube multi-mode reader
8.	
Nanodrop spectrophotometer
9.	
Real Time PCR
10. Thermal cycler
11. Electrophoresis systems
12. Automated cell counter
13. Sonicator
14. Gene pulser system
15. Cryotome
35
Annual Report 2020_21

1.	
Dr. Sushmita Paul delivered a plenary lecture at Faculty 
development programme on Effective Teaching and 
Learning Practices in Computational Biology, Organized by 
the Department of Biotechnology, In Association with the 
teaching learning centre, NIT Warangal, March 2021.
2.	
Dr. Sushmita Paul delivered 14th IBSE Seminar at the IIT 
Madras, December 2020.
3.	
Dr. Sushmita Paul delivered Invited talk at the Inbix2020, 
December 2020.
4.	
Dr Sushmita Jha Organized a Workshop on Medical 
Technologies on 25th Sep 2021
5.	
Dr Sushmita Jha Initiated and organized The Biodesign Talk 
series. The First talk was organized on 10th July 2021.
6.	
Dr Sushmita Jha was one of the co-organizers of the 
NeuroFem India International conference organized by 
BiaswatchIndia and Alba Network, 9-11th April 2021
7.	
Dr Sushmita Jha delivered an invited talk at 4th Global 
Cancer Summit, 2021 Biogenesis Health Cluster, Online, 
24th April 2021
8.	
Dr Sushmita Jha delivered an invited talk at Bioroom, a 
virtual biology seminar series across the globe, Online, 29th 
Sep 2020
9.	
Dr Sushmita Jha presented research at The American 
Association of Immunologists Annual Meeting, organized 
by the AAI, Online 10-15th May 2021
10. Dr Sushmita Jha was selected for the EMBO | EMBL 
Symposium: Organoids: Modelling Organ Development 
and Disease in 3D Culture, Virtual 21 – 24th October 2020
11. Dr Sushmita Jha, was an invited speaker at the ‘Career 
Convention’ event held at Sri Aurobindo Centre of New 
Education, 24 July 2021.
12. Dr. Priyanka Singh was part of the organizing team for the 
1st International Conference on Data Science in Biology 
(Sep 3 – 5, 2020)
13. Dr. Neha Jain was one of the panelists for the panel 
discussion on ‘Taking India Biofilms Society outside India’ on 
27th Feb 2021 organised by Indian Biofilm Society.
14. Dr. Pankaj Yadav co-organized 1st International Conference 
on Data Science in Biology (Sep 3 – 5, 2020).
15. Dr. Pankaj Yadav organized the FDP Workshop on Advances 
in Bioinformatics sponsored by the Ministry of Electronics 
and Information Technology (MeitY), NIT, Warangal, India.
16. Dr. Pankaj Yadav organized the FDP on Computer Science 
and Biology sponsored by ATAL academy, MNIT, Jaipur, 
India.
17. Dr. Raviraj Vankayala was invited as a speaker in a two-day 
national webinar on Analytical and Diagnostic tools in 
Life Sciences organized by Andhra University and Andhra 
Pradesh Akademi of Sciences, Visakhapatnam and delivered 
a talk entitled “Engineering Inorganic and Biomimetic 
Nanostructures for Theranostic Applications” (6 June 2020).
18. Dr. Raviraj Vankayala was invited as a speaker in a national 
webinar organized by Vignan College of Pharmacy, Guntur, 
Andhra Pradesh and delivered a talk entitled “Engineering 
Inorganic and Biomimetic Nanostructures for Theranostic 
Applications” (26 June 2020).
19. Dr. Raviraj Vankayala was invited as a speaker at KPR 
Institute of Engineering and Technology (KPRIET), 
Coimbatore and delivered a talk entitled “Nanomaterials for 
Biomedical Applications” (15 July 2020).
20. Dr. Surajit Ghosh organized the second Industry Day of IIT 
Jodhpur, 12-13th March 2021
21. Dr. Surajit Ghosh organized the Virtual ROADSHOW on 
Inauguration of BIRAC-BioNEST Incubator @TISC, IIT 
Jodhpur, 22nd February 2021
22. Dr. Surajit Ghosh organized the Virtual Roadshow/Web 
seminar on Vigyan se Vikas-Showcasing Potential, Journey 
and Impact of Biotechnology on the Society, 28th June 
2021
23. Dr. Indranil Banerjee delivered a keynote address in the 
International conference on new horizons in pharma-
ceutical research-2021 (ICNHPR-2021), organized by the 
Indian Society of Technical Education, (New Delhi, India) 
and Kanak Manjari Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences 
(Odisha, India)
24. Dr. Indranil Banerjee delivered an invited talk at “Water, 
Energy and Environment: Challenges and Solutions (WEE-
2021)” organized by GITAM, Hyderabad.
25. Dr. Indranil Banerjee delivered an invited talk at 
Bioengineering Conference 2020, NIT Rourkela, Odisha, 
India.
26. Dr. Shankar Manoharan delivered a lecture on “Gut 
microbiome analysis” as an invited speaker in a Refresher 
Course on “Recent Trends in Lifesciences” organized by the 
Human Resource Development Centre, Madurai Kamaraj 
University.
27. Dr. Shankar Manoharan was selected to attend an EMBO 
Laboratory Leadership course organized by the DBT/
Wellcome Trust India Alliance (India Alliance) and EMBO.
Outreach
The following Outreach activities have been undertaken by the Faculty Members at IIT Jodhpur During the FY 2020-21.
36
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Department of Civil & 
Infrastructure Engineering
The Department of Civil and Infrastructural Engineering came 
into existence in the Year 2020. The department has a unique 
vision of creating the next generation of engineers who will 
address societal needs from an individual to a community level. 
B.Tech., M.Tech., M.Tech.-Ph.D., and Ph.D. programs in Civil and 
Infrastructure Engineering have started from the Academic 
Year 2020-21. Through these undergraduate and postgraduate
programs, the department is making a stride to reimagine the 
course structure, incorporating and integrating the elements of 
conventional civil engineering with advanced transformative 
technologies such as Artificial Intelligence (AI), Cyber-Physical 
Systems (CPS), Digital Twins (DT), and automated management 
and information systems.
Faculty Members & Research Areas
Ranju Mohan
Head of the Department
Traffic flow theory; 
Macroscopic and 
Microscopic modelling 
of traffic flow; Connected 
and autonomous 
vehicles; Dynamic Traffic 
Assignment
Amit Kumar Rathi
Reliability analysis and 
design, uncertainty 
quantification, stochastic 
modelling and mechanics, 
laminated composite 
materials, vibration control 
and structural health 
monitoring
Amit Sharma
Atmospheric 
Chemistry; Air 
Pollution; Climate 
change; Impact on 
crops and human 
health
Bhupendra Singh
Sustainable Pavement 
Materials, Pavement 
Analysis, Pavement 
Design
37
Annual Report 2020_21

Deepika Bhattu
Emission sources, characterization 
and secondary aerosol formation 
potential; Real-time aerosol 
measurements using mass 
spectrometry techniques; 
Source apportionment 
techniques; Physical, chemical 
and hygroscopic properties of 
atmospheric aerosols and cloud 
condensation nuclei (CCN) activity
Pradeep Kumar 
Dammala
Earthquake Geotechnics, 
Seismic Soil Liquefaction, 
Soil-Structure-Interaction, 
Ground Improvement and 
Soil Stabilization, Physical 
and numerical modelling 
in geotechnics, Sustainable 
geotechnics
P. Ravi Prakash
Computational 
Mechanics, Structural 
Fire Engineering, 
Application of AI in 
Structural Engineering
Prof. T. K. Datta, Emeritus Professor, Department of Civil Engineering, Indian Institute of 
Technology Delhi, is associated with the department as Adjunct Faculty Member.
Prof. Bishwajit Bhattacharjee, Emeritus Professor, Department of Civil Engineering, Indian Institute 
of Technology Delhi, is associated with the department as Adjunct Faculty Member.
Outreach
The following Outreach activities have been undertaken by the Faculty Members at IIT Jodhpur During the FY 2019-20.
1.	
Dr. Amit Kumar Rathi delivered invited talk at AICTE 
sponsored online STTP on Structural Health Monitoring and 
Seismic Protection of Structural and Infrastructural Systems 
(Phase-IV), Bannari Amman Institute of Technology, Erode, 
India during 05-10 October 2020.
2.	
Dr. Amit Kumar Rathi delivered an invited talk at online STC 
on Advances In Structural Engineering (ASE2021), National 
Institute of Technology Hamirpur, Hamirpur, India during 
11-15 January 2021.
3.	
Dr. Amit Kumar Rathi delivered expert talk at TEQIP III 
sponsored STTP on Advances in Earthquake Resistant 
Design of Structures (AERDS2021) at Sardar Vallabhbhai 
National Institute of Technology, Surat, India during 18-22 
January 2021.
4.	
Dr. Amit Kumar Rathi participated in the DRI Dialogue 
for Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI) –
Academia collaboration at New Delhi during 4-5 March 2021
5.	
Dr. Pradeep Kumar Dammala was an expert speaker for FDP 
program titled “Earthquake Geotechnics” organized by NIT 
Andhra Pradesh during 22nd and 26th September, 2020
6.	
Dr. Ranju Mohan served as a Program Committee member 
for the 13th International Conference on COMmunication 
Systems & NETworkS (COMSNETS 2021), January 5-9, 
Bengaluru, India.
8.	
Dr. Bhupendra Singh has delivered two lectures in 
the Faculty Development Programme on “Design and 
Evaluation of Flexible Pavements in Indian Context” at IIT 
Jammu on 02nd February, 2021.
9	
Dr. Bhupendra Singh has delivered three lectures on 
“Characterization of Bitumen”
, “Design of Hot Bituminous 
Mixes” and “Design of Warm & Cold Bituminous Mixes” 
during the Training Program on “Pavement Materials & 
Quality Control – Part-1 at VNIT Nagpur on 18th and 19th 
Feb 2021.
Debanjan Guha Roy
Rock mechanics; 
Reservoir geomechanics, 
Engineering geology; 
Poromechanics
Tekcham Gishan 
Singh
Thin-walled Structures; 
Tubular Steel Structures; 
Cold-formed, hot-rolled & 
welded steel structures; 
Perforated Steel 
Structures; Steel-concrete 
composite structures.
38
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Department of 
Chemical Engineering
The vision of the Department of Chemical Engineering is: 
‘To become a globally recognized department of chemical 
engineering through its contribution in emerging and demand-
driven areas with a multidisciplinary approach.’ With this vision, 
under-graduate (B.Tech.) and post-graduate (M.Tech., M.Tech.-
Ph.D. and Ph.D.) programs in Chemical Engineering were started 
and the first batch of students were admitted with the mission to:
■
empower students with fundamentals of chemical 
engineering and emerging concepts.
■
become a center of excellence in process engineering 
intelligence, molecular engineering and sustainability.
■
To engage in a research program for translation of 
molecular information into discovery of sustainable 
products and processes.
■
To create a research ecosystem which encourages 
students and research scholars to find solutions for diverse 
environmental and societal issues as a part of the social 
scientific responsibility.
■
To become a net positive department through start-up 
culture, consultancy, technology transfer, industry-
academia interaction.
The main goals of the Department are focussed on (i) imparting 
knowledge in core domains of chemical engineering as well 
as emerging and demand-driven areas, which would enable
the students to convert challenges into opportunities; (ii) 
collaborative programs with industry and other academic 
institutes for constant upkeep of skills in line with industry
39
Annual Report 2020_21

needs, delivering high impact research and contributing to 
modernization of local industrial traditions; (iii) become lead 
institution in thrust research areas and develop centers of 
excellence in Molecular Engineering, Sustainability and Process 
Engineering Intelligence; and (iv) gradual generation of financial 
resources.
Chemical Engineering Department is sharing its expertise 
with the Jodhpur District Administration (JoDA), Bureau of 
Indian Standards (BIS); Department of Drinking Water and 
Sanitation (DDWS), Ministry of Jal Shakti; Defence Research 
and Development Organisation (DRDO), Ministry of Defence; 
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) etc. Department 
has signed a MoU with the industries for providing consultancy 
services. Department is also actively involved in Scientific Social
Responsibility (SSR), setting up several water purification units for 
providing clean drinking water to students in rural and remote 
schools in the neighbourhoods and other societal initiatives.
Department enjoys the benefit of the guidance from Professor 
Devang Khakhar, Former Director, Indian Institute of Technology 
Bombay. Professor Khakhar is associated with the Department of 
Chemical Engineering as Scholar-in-Residence.
Devang Khakhar
Scholar-in-Residence
Faculty Members & Research Areas
Pradip K. Tewari
Head of Department
Water Technologies; 
Membrane Technology; 
Desalination; 
Nanocomposite Membrane 
Technology; Heat 
Transfer and Two-Phase 
Flow, Nuclear Chemical 
Engineering.
Angan Sengupta
Atomistic and Molecular to Multi-
scale Modelling & Simulations for 
Free Energy Calculation of Various 
Type of Surfaces; Theoretical 
Material Design for CO2 capture, 
H2 storage, Water Treatment & 
Fuel Cell; Continuum Modelling 
& Simulations, Transport Process 
Modelling & Simulations; Fire 
and Explosion Modelling & 
Simulations, Safety & Reliability 
Modelling & Simulations
Deepak Arora
Adhesion in electronic 
packaging and manufacture 
of high-density interconnects; 
Polymer rheology; Polymer 
crystallization; Dielectrics 
for electronic packaging; 
Structure-process-property 
relationships for polymers and 
their composites
Nirmalya Bachhar
Multiscale modeling, 
Colloids and 
nanomaterial, Polymer 
nanocomposite
The following Faculty Members are associated with the Department during this year:
Praveen Kumar 
Sappidi
Multiscale modeling, 
Molecular simulation, 
Free energy simulations, 
Contaminant separation 
materials, Ionic liquid 
based solvents, Polymeric 
materials
Prasenjit Sarkar
Biochemical 
engineering, 
Biomolecular 
engineering
Prashant Kumar 
Gupta
Electrochemical Energy 
Storage Devices (Lithium, 
Sodium and Zinc Ion 
Battery), Electrocatalysis 
(HER, OER, CER, and 
Electrochemical CO2 
Reduction), Electrochemical 
Biosensors
Ramesh Asapu
Photocatalysis: Application 
in environmental 
remediation. Metal halide 
perovskites, Plasmonic 
nanomaterials. Physical 
Systems Modeling: 
Photocatalytic Reactors, 
Automotive and Building 
HVAC systems.
40
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Vikky Anand
Electrohydrodynamics; 
Multiphase flow; 
Eharlectro-desalting for 
water-in-oil emulsion 
system; Soft matter; 
Rheology of crude oils.
Outreach
The following Outreach activities have been undertaken by the 
Faculty Members at IIT Jodhpur during the FY 2020-21.
1.	
Prof. Pradip Tewari along with the team of Dr. Nirmalya 
Bachar, Dr. Angan Sengupta, Dr. Prashant K Gupta, Dr. 
Vikky Anand is involved in the develop ment of oxygen 
concentrators.
2.	
Prof. Pradip Tewari, Dr. Prashant K Gupta, Dr. Vikky Anand, 
have visited the local plants in Jodhpur and suggested 
operational and performance improvements in the 
production of oxygen.
3.	
Prof. Padip Tewari and Dr. Vikky Anand have visited textile 
and steel plants to provide technical support/suggestions to 
maintain the water quality in wastewater treatment plants.
4.	
Through Centre for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable 
Development (CETSD), proactive measures were continued 
by the Department to ensure clean water for drinking in 
primary and secondary schools of (i) Khadaat village in 
Sirohi district, (ii) Dhanuri village in Pindwara of Sirohi 
district, & (iii) Luna villages in Jhunjhunu district during the 
pandemic time by designing and installing ultra-filtration 
membrane assisted adsorption based water purification 
units. Membrane based units were installed in two more 
schools in Jheepasini village and Roodiya village. One unit 
was installed for treatment, recycle and reuse of greywater 
in a school of Jheepasini village during the pandemic. It has 
provided critical support to the student’s health, capacity 
building and awareness.
5.	
Dr. Nirmalya Bachar has visited the MDM Hospital Jodhpur 
to help in their in-house oxygen plants.
6.	
The first Industrial Day of the Chemical Engineering 
Department of IIT Jodhpur was organized on 12th
June2021. The event was inaugurated by our beloved 
Director Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, and featured webinars 
from organizations such as the Centre for Cellular 
and Molecular Platforms (C-CAMP, a DBT-supported 
organization) and Algo8. This event was organized to 
increase the academia industry interaction helping 
students in exploring career options, and provide 
motivation for startups and possible collaborations.
7.	
Talk by Dr. Angan Sengupta in Faculty Development 
Program sponsored by AICTE-ISTE at Department of 
Chemical Engineering, Gharda Institute of Technology, 
Lavel
8.	
Dr. Angan Sengupta is a member of DLJ-IIT Jodhpur.
9.	
Dr. Angan Sengupta and Professor Pradip Tewari are 
involved in research work with Algo8 to provide solutions 
on Heat Exchanger Networking and Fouling problem to 
IOCL.
10. Invited talk was delivered by Dr. Prashant Kumar Gupta in 
one-week faculty development program on ‘Renewable 
and Clean Energy Conversion Technologies and Materials’ 
organized under TEQIP-III by JNTUA Anantapur & Bikaner 
Technical University.
11. Keynote address was delivered by Prof. Tewari on 
‘Sustainability: Water, Energy, Environment Nexus’ during 
International webinar organised by MNIT Jaipur (21-23 
March 2021)
12. Keynote address was delivered by Prof. Tewari on ‘New 
Strategies in Water Treatment and Desalination’ during 
International Water Day Webinar organised by Indian 
Desalination Association & NIOT Chennai on 22 March 2021.
41
Annual Report 2020_21

Department of Chemistry
Chemistry at IIT Jodhpur is where Chemistry sees Technology. 
At IIT Jodhpur, Chemistry embraces a distinctive locus in science 
and technology collaboration. The department is making 
technological contribution to new materials for energy solutions, 
catalysis and water. Fundamental understanding of chemical
dynamics, biological phenomena, Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
and Quantum Chemistry are growing in prominence. The vision 
of the Department of Chemistry is to strive to be acknowledged 
for excellence in teaching, research, and outreach. The following 
Faculty Members are associated with the department:
Faculty Members & Research Areas
Ritu Gupta
Head of Department
Nanomaterials & 
Nanodevices for Water, 
Energy and Healthcare
Rakesh Kumar 
Sharma
Catalysis for Energy 
and Stereocontrol, 
Feedstock Chemistry, 
Fuel and Lubricants, 
Energy Storage and 
Water Treatment 
Technology
Ananya Debnath
Theoretical and 
Computational 
Chemistry
Ramesh K. Metre
Main-group 
organometallic 
chemistry, Coordination 
polymers, Inorganic-
organic hybrid materials 
and Metal phosphonate 
and phosphate chemistry
Atul Kumar
Quantum Information 
Processing
Samanwita Pal
Solution and solid-
state NMR and NQR 
spectroscopy
Manikandan 
Paranjothy
Theoretical and 
Computational 
Chemistry, Chemical 
Reaction Dynamics
Sandip Murarka
Organic Synthesis, 
Development of Novel 
Synthetic Methods, 
Transition Metal Catalyzed 
Synthetic Transformations, 
C-H Functionalization 
Reactions, Asymmetric 
Catalysis
42
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Nirmal Kumar 
Rana
Asymmetric Catalysis 
and Continuous Flow 
Chemistry
Subrata 
Chakraborty
Organometallics, 
Homogeneous 
Catalysis
Dibyendu Kumar 
Sasmal
Assistant Professor
Biophysical chemistry; Single 
molecule fluorescence imaging; T 
cell immunology; Ion channel and 
neurotransmitter; Femtosecond 
ultrafast fluorescence spectroscopy; 
Fluorescence correlation 
spectroscopy; Electrophysiology: 
Single channel patch-clamp
Rohan D. Erande
Synthesis of Natural 
Products & Medicinally 
Active Compounds, 
Method development 
Lewis Acid Catalysis
The following laboratories are functioning in the Department of Chemistry.
Teaching Laboratories
The UG and PG level chemistry courses are taught practically to 
students during the two-hour long sessions on alternate weeks. 
They are designed to complement and reinforce course material 
presented in lectures. Students are provided with a laboratory 
manual at the beginning of the semester. After completing a 
pre-lab assignment, students under the supervision of their 
teaching assistant complete the experiment and prepare a 
report, which is submitted for grading at the end of the lab
period. PG students work individually or with a partner. UG 
students work in a group of 3-4 students. One can expect to 
see many different types of experiments including titrations, 
organic reactions, synthesis of nylon, electrochemical reactions, 
study of color in complexes, fluorescence and functional groups 
identification using spectrometers, to name a few. The focus 
is on developing hands-on-skills required for solving various 
scientific problems.
43
Annual Report 2020_21

The core objective of this laboratory of IIT Jodhpur is to train 
students in scientific methods that would solve real problems at 
the frontier of our understanding of the matter. This is a multi-
use laboratory and provides a number of resources to assist 
undergraduate, graduate and Ph.D. students in planning their 
professional careers after completing their academic program at 
IIT Jodhpur.
This laboratory maintains a broad spectrum of state-of-the-art 
instrumentation including basic laboratory set up (for Organic, 
Inorganic, Organometallic and Material Synthesis), Nitrogen Gas 
Facility, Ice Making Machine, Hot Air and Vacuum Oven, Fume 
Hood pH- Conductivity Meters, Rotary Evaporator, Vacuum 
Pumps, Centrifuges, Chiller, Microbalances, Orbital Shaker, 
Melting point, Hot Plates and Stirrers etc.
This lab is newly set up in the academic year 2018-2019, the 
lab procured equipment such as UV-visible spectrometers, FTIR 
Spectrometers, Fluorescence Spectrometer, Electrochemical 
Workstation, Contact Angle Meter, Polarimeter for carrying out
state of the experiments in Analytical and Physical Chemistry. 
This laboratory can accommodate 40 students together for 
carrying out group experiments.
1. Organic and Inorganic Chemistry laboratory
2. Analytical and Physical Chemistry laboratory
44
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Research Laboratories
The Department of Chemistry has set up 7 thematic research laboratories for advanced experimental research activities for PhD 
scholars, project staff and Post-Doctoral Researchers. The details of the research, experimental facilities etc. can be found under the 
webpages of individual faculty users of the laboratory.
45
Annual Report 2020_21

There are two research groups working in this laboratory. One 
group aims to design and synthesize new organocatalysts and 
apply them in developing novel asymmetric methodologies 
mainly emphasizing on domino/cascade/sequential reactions 
for creating multiple stereocenters within a molecule. Additional 
targets are the exploration of dual organo-metal catalysis and 
biocatalysis. Our other aim is to develop new methodologies
using continuous-flow systems using immobilized chiral 
catalysts for the production of fine chemicals, chiral drug 
molecules/intermediates with industrial implementation. We are 
also focused to utilize our methodologies as key steps for the 
synthesis of architecturally interesting and biologically active 
molecules.
The other research group mainly focuses on the total synthesis 
of biologically important Natural Product. We are highly 
interested in method development like metal catalysis, 
organocatalysis, Lewis acid catalysis and cascades of reactions 
to resolve the complexity of targeted natural products in access 
to achieve their total synthesis in efficient and step- and atom-
economical way. An aiming to target potent drug molecules 
with new mechanisms of action, we are exploring the field of 
medicinal chemistry by collaboration with bio-laboratories 
and pharmaceutical companies towards drug discovery and 
development in India.
1. Asymmetric Synthesis and Continuous Flow 
Chemistry
46
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

C-H Functionalizations and Photoredox Catalysis are arguably 
the most exciting, powerful and rapidly emerging fields in 
synthetic organic chemistry. The laboratory is focused on
utilizing these powerful strategies for the development of atom-
economic, efficient and functional group tolerant methods.
The organometallic chemistry laboratory focuses on 
developing novel transition metal and main-group element 
based organometallic complexes, study and characterize 
their properties, understanding unique behavior and
potential applications in material chemistry and sustainable 
homogeneous catalysis. There are two research groups working 
in this laboratory.
The research group working in this laboratory is dedicated 
to develop novel sustainable synthetic methods towards 
molecules of medicinal importance. To this endeavor the group 
has embarked on developing a diverse array of transition metal 
catalyzed and metal-free synthetic transformations. The research 
group is actively engaged in the direct chemoselective C-H 
functionalization leading to the formation of carbon-carbon 
and carbon-heteroatom bonds allowing access to untapped 
regions of chemical space. Direct C-H functionalization does 
not only render the synthetic sequence of useful molecular 
entities more economical and straightforward but also provide 
a powerful alternative to the conventional de novo strategies. 
On the other hand, photoredox catalysis, another cutting-edge
tool which allows photosensitizers to convert visible light into 
chemical energy and promote single electron transfer-based 
organic transformations is an another heavily investigated area 
in Murarka research group. The group has recently unfolded a 
visible light induced and organophotoredox catalyzed efficient 
and robust radical cascade cyclization strategy towards the 
synthesis of biologically important alkyl substituted chroman-
4-one scaffolds. Dr. Sandip’s research group envisage that such 
novel chemical tools should potentially unlock unique reaction 
pathways and facilitate rapid diversification of pharmaceutical 
molecules to an exciting range of closely related bioactive 
analogs and thereby enabling development of new chemical 
entities (NCEs).
2. C-H functionalization and Photoredox Catalysis 
Laboratory
3. Transition Metal and Organometalics Research 
Laboratory
47
Annual Report 2020_21

One group is interested to develop and study Main-group 
organometallic complexes, with focus on applications into 
materials chemistry. In an effort to gain better understanding 
of structure and properties of the Main-group Organometallic 
Complexes, design involving intramolecular coordination 
approach will be probed. The new complexes with their unique
structures will be explored as a potential candidate for Single 
source precursors to Energy materials. The group also focuses 
on use of Photoactive and Electroactive ligands to construct 
the main-group organometallic molecular assemblies for the 
applications in area of sensors and molecular electronics.
The other group is committed to develop and study 
Organometallic Catalysis, which shape and guide the processes 
of the Industry. In an effort to gain better understanding of 
the transition metal complexes, design of new pincer ligand 
based organometallic complexes, study their reactivity towards 
inert C-H, N-H, H-H bonds and exploration on activation 
modes of small molecules like N2, H2, CO2 and CO etc with
the pincer complexes will be probed. The group also focuses 
on applications of organometallics in homogeneous catalysis 
using renewable resources targeting catalytically challenging 
sustainable transformations via (transfer) hydrogenation, 
dehydrogenation, hydrosilylation, hydroamination etc including 
in-depth kinetic and mechanistic investigation.
48
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

This laboratory has two research groups working on different 
aspects. One research group focuses to decipher dynamics 
and interaction of small molecules both in solution and 
solid state by employing NMR methods based on relaxation, 
molecular diffusion, chemical exchange and magnetization 
transfer. The group is involved in design, modification and 
implementation of NMR pulse sequences to unveil molecular 
interaction relevant in the field of materials, medicine and 
environment to name a few. The group is currently investing 
time in analysing various drug delivery systems ranging from 
supramolecular to polymeric to metal oxide nanomaterials in
terms of drug encapsulation, release mechanism and stability. 
The group is actively involved in humic substance extraction 
and design of HS based biosensors for environmental pollution 
remediation processes. Additionally, this research group is 
also interested in NMR metabolomics and solid state NQR. The 
group further uses various spectroscopic techniques to shed 
light in the cross-disciplinary areas of renewable energy sources, 
biomacromolecules and biomaterials. The lab is continuously 
expanding its research areas for a better understanding of 
macromolecular systems.
The laboratory is focused on elucidating structure, function, 
dynamics and interactions of chemical entities ranging from 
small to complex biological macromolecules at the condensed 
phase as well as single-molecule level using state-of-the-art
spectroscopy and biophysics techniques. Progressive uptake of 
challenging biophysical projects and solving them with cutting-
edge spectroscopic and biophysics techniques are the main 
theme of this lab.
4. Spectroscopy & Biophysics Laboratory
49
Annual Report 2020_21

The other research group works to unravel complex sub-cellular 
functions and dynamics at single-molecule level combining 
multidisciplinary research areas in molecular/cellular biology, 
physical chemistry, time-resolved fluorescence spectroscopy, 
and fluorescence microscopy. The research group is focused to 
understand various complex cellular signalings (immunological 
synapse), immunological interaction (TCR-pMHC), ligand-
receptor interaction dynamics, immunotherapy against 
muscular dystrophy (DMD) and conformation dynamics of 
ion channels like protein (NMDA receptor) molecules. Sasmal
research group is going to develop a micropipette manipulation 
system (biomembrane force probe) to measure ligand-receptor 
interaction forces at pico-Newton scale. The lab will build 
customized TIRF and confocal microscopy systems and combine 
highly interdisciplinary research areas in chemistry, life science, 
physics and computer science. In addition, the research group is 
also focused on understanding biological water dynamics using 
femtosecond upconversion spectroscopy and fluorescence 
correlation spectroscopy (FCS).
Advanced Functional Materials and Interfaces is an 
interdisciplinary field with chemistry playing a central role. 
Chemistry Department has a broad range of interests across the 
fields of materials and interfaces. Amongst these are materials 
exhibiting interesting optical, electronic, magnetic, catalytic 
and mechanical properties. The discovery, understanding and 
development of these materials is central to providing solutions 
in areas ranging from energy, healthcare, electronics, and 
catalysis. The research includes development of new synthetic 
techniques enabling the preparation of a range of well-
defined nanoparticles, 2-D nanosheets and heirarcical complex
nanostructures. We focus on developing materials amenable 
to patterning and printing over large areas for scalable 
nanomanufacturing.
The research group associated with this laboratory works on 
developing large scale methods for synthesis of nanomaterials 
and translating them into devices for application in Energy, 
Water and Healthcare. The present interest includes application 
of nanomaterials in areas related to water treatment, energy 
storage devices, photoelectrochemical devices, environmental 
gas sensors and healthcare devices.
5. Advanced Functional Materials Laboratory
50
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

This laboratory focuses on multidisciplinary research for the 
development of energy and environmental catalysis that 
includes chemists, materials scientists, and environmentalists 
working towards the improvement of human health and life 
quality.
The research group associated with this laboratory focuses 
on sustainable materials for catalysis. It includes a diverse 
group of chemists and material scientists specializing in 
catalysis, feed-stock chemistry, energy harvesting and 
storage, environmental remediation and fuels. The main 
goal is to understand fundamental chemical processes and
also to develop highly efficient materials inspired by nature. 
The researchers develop simple, reproducible and scalable 
methods for sustainable science. The research undertaken in 
the group is intended to have far lasting implications to utilize 
and design materials for applications that are required by a 
booming technology minding the effect on the environment. 
The group nurture philosophy of collaboration expedites new 
discoveries and innovations. Researchers are actively engaged 
with, international universities, inter-institutional, numerous 
government agencies and industries to harvest the benefits of 
our research work for end-users.
6. Energy and Environmental Catalysis Research 
Laboratory
51
Annual Report 2020_21

This laboratory is focused on studying the structure and 
dynamics associated with important chemical processes. 
Modern computational techniques including electronic 
structure theory and molecular dynamics simulations are used 
to understand complex chemical phenomena. Computing 
facilities are available in the Computer Centre to perform 
these calculations. There are three groups associated with this 
laboratory.
Gas Phase Reaction Dynamics: This work is about studying 
complex organic reactions in the gas phase to investigate 
mechanisms and energy flow pathways using state-of-the-
art direct dynamics techniques wherein classical Newton’s 
equations are integrated on-the-fly using quantum mechanical 
potential energies and gradients. The research group
associated with studies in this area is interested in looking into 
the dynamics of chemical reactions using the principles of 
classical and quantum mechanics. Understanding a chemical 
reaction from a static picture – the potential energy surface – is 
insufficient in completely describing the process. One needs to 
look at the dynamics i.e., the time-dependent nuclear motion at 
the atomic level. Classical trajectory simulations with potentials 
and gradients computed on-the-fly using electronic structure 
theory packages, a methodology known as direct dynamics, 
is used in most of our simulations. The group is interested in 
studying organic reaction mechanisms and pathways, modelling 
gas phase experiments and studying the associated dynamics. 
Research work is going on to understand mechanisms of 
covalent adduct formation between DNA base pairs with few 
select carcinogens and chemistry of negatively charged arenes.
7. Computational Chemistry Laboratory
52
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Computational Molecular Biophysics: The research aims at 
understanding principles of complex biophysical processes 
using principles of Statistical Mechanics and Quantum 
Chemistry. High end supercomputers located at computer 
centres are used to simulate the systems. The research group 
associated with studying this area of study broadly envisages on 
understanding principles of soft condensed matter using multi-
scale modeling. Dynamical processes involving soft matter have 
a broad range of coupled time-scales where small changes in 
molecular level weak interactions lead to large effect on system’s 
macroscopic properties. Using multi-scale modeling the 
research group is exploring the structure function relationships
at different time and length scales important for different 
biological and non-biological soft matter systems. In particular, 
the group focuses on water dynamics at the hydration layers, 
self-assembly of surfactants, protein-membrane-water 
systems, their interactions with other bio-molecules and 
polymer dynamics related to chemical and activated processes. 
The group develops and uses modeling tools ranging from 
molecular simulations to study the structure and dynamics of 
proteins, lipids, water at the micro and meso-scale as well as 
the analytical theory at the macro-scale to investigate different 
processes involving biological chain and macromolecules.
53
Annual Report 2020_21

Quantum Information and Computation: The group is 
interested in foundations of quantum mechanics and quantum 
information processing. The research aims at analysing and 
characterizing multiqubit entanglement and nonlocality in pure
as well as mixed states. In addition, the group is also interested 
in communication protocols, quantum cryptography and 
quantum games.
54
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Outreach
The following Outreach activities have been undertaken by the Faculty Members at IIT Jodhpur During the FY 2019-20
1.	
Dr. Ritu Gupta, coordinator of Vigyan Jyoti Program 
organized science exhibition and motivational lectures for 
50 meritorious girl students of Novodya Vidyalya, Barmer on 
19 Jan 2020.
2.	
Dr. Ritu Gupta, Department of Chemistry, Indian Institute 
of Technology, along with student team from Department
of Chemistry, organized one day event - “Nano Jatha” at 
Regional Science Center and Science Park, Jaipur on 15 Feb 
2020. The event was supported by CeNS, Bangalore and 
DST-Rajasthan. It included lectures roadshow, exhibition 
and quiz program on nanotechnology for familiarizing the 
participants from schools and colleges with the different 
aspects and applications of nanotechnology.ृ
55
Annual Report 2020_21

Sl. No. Undergraduate Programs
1 B.Tech. Computer Science and Engineering (CSE)
2 B.Tech. AI and Data Science (AI&DS)
Sl. No. Postgraduate Programs
1 M.Tech. Computer Science and Engineering (CSE)
2 M.Tech. Artificial Intelligence (AI)
3 Executive M.Tech. AI (for working professionals)
Sl. No. Doctoral Programs
1 M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree CSE
2 M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree AI
Department of Computer 
Science & Engineering
Computer Science and Engineering, today, plays a major role in 
transforming every aspect of human life - in addressing social 
challenges and catalyzing the ongoing wave of the industrial 
revolution. The department is driven by its commitment to excel 
in next generation technology development and research. Our
mission is to perform cutting edge research on problems of 
importance and value, educate students and prepare them to 
contribute to multi-disciplinary projects, for solving problems 
of national interest, and strengthen industry-academia 
collaborations.
Academic Programs
The Department of Computer Science and Engineering offers the following academic programs.
56
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Faculty
Richa Singh
Professor and Head
Ph.D.: West Virginia 
University
Debasis Das
Assistant Professor
Ph.D.: Indian Institute of 
Technology Patna
Romi Banerjee
Assistant Professor
Ph.D.: Calcutta 
University, Indian 
Statistical Institute
Santanu 
Chaudhury
Professor
Ph.D.: Indian Institute of 
Technology Kharagpur
Deepak Mishra
Assistant Professor
Ph.D.: Indian Institute of 
Technology Delhi
Suman Kundu
Assistant Professor
Ph.D.: Indian Statistical 
Institute, Jadavpur 
University
Anand Mishra
Assistant Professor
Ph.D.: International 
Institute of Information 
Technology Hyderabad
Gaurav Harit
Associate Professor
Ph.D.: Indian Institute of 
Technology Delhi
Sumit Kalra
Assistant Professor
Ph.D.: Indian Institute of 
Technology Kanpur
Chiranjoy 
Chattopadhyay
Assistant Professor
Ph.D.: Indian Institute of 
Technology Madras
Mayank Vatsa
Professor
Ph.D.: West Virginia 
University
Yashaswi Verma
Assistant Professor
Ph.D.: International 
Institute of Information 
Technology Hyderabad
Following are the faculty members & Young Faculty Associate associated with the department.
57
Annual Report 2020_21

Debarati B. 
Chakraborty
Young Faculty 
Associate
Ph.D.: Jadavpur 
University
Ravi Bhandari
Young Faculty 
Associate
Ph.D.: Indian Institute of 
Technology Bombay
The following faculty members joined the department during the year 2020-21.
Adjunct Faculty
Suchetana 
Chakraborty
Assistant Professor
Ph.D.: Indian Institute of 
Technology Guwahati
Sajal K. Das
Professor and Daniel St. 
Clair Endowed Chair
Missouri University 
of Science and 
Technology
Ph.D.: University of 
Central Florida
Dip Sankar 
Banerjee
Assistant Professor
Ph.D.: International 
Institute of Information 
Technology Hyderabad
Nalini Ratha
Empire Innovation 
Professor
State University at 
Buffalo
Ph.D.: Michigan State 
University
Pallavi Jain
Assistant Professor
Ph.D.: Dayalbagh 
Educational Institute 
(Deemed University)
Somitra Sanadhya
Associate Professor
Ph.D.: Indian Statistical 
Institute, Kolkata
Sankar Kumar Pal
National Science Chair, 
Distinguished Scientist and Former 
Director
Indian Statistical Institute
Ph.D. (Radio-Physics): Indian 
Statistical Institute/Calcutta 
University;
Ph.D. & DIC (Electrical Engineering): 
Imperial College of Science and 
Technology, London
58
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Advisors
Bimal Roy
Professor
ISI Kolkata
Naveen Garg
Professor
IIT Delhi
Chiranjib 
Bhattacharya
Professor
IISc Bangalore
Sartaj Sahni
Professor
University of Florida, 
USA
Gargi Banerjee 
Dasgupta
Director
IBM Research India & 
CTO, IBM India and 
South Asia
Shivkumar 
Kalyanaraman
CTO
Energy & Mobility, 
Microsoft R&D India
Gautam Shroff
Sr. Vice President & Head 
of Research
Tata Consultancy 
Services
Venu Govindaraju
Vice President
Office of Research and 
Economic Development, 
SUNY
Distinguished Professor
SUNY, University at 
Buffalo
The department is honored to have advisors from academia and industry.
59
Annual Report 2020_21

Staff
Rimpesh Katiyar
Senior Technical 
Superintendent
Vivek Verma
Technical Assistant
Hanuman Singh
Junior Superintendent
The Department of Computer Science and Engineering has the following technical and administrative staff members.
Technical Staff
Administrative Staff
Research Snapshots
Project Title: Smart Health Solution for Rapid Mass Screening using Integrated TeleMedicine
Team Member: Sumit Kalra
Description: The objective of this project is to design and develop tailored telehealth solutions based on existing solutions for 
screening of covid19 suspects, deployment of multiple kiosks at covid19 hotspot areas, and development of an AI-based model for 
accurate sensor data analytics for covid19 screening remotely.
60
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Project Title: AIoT based Bed Occupancy
Team Members: Sumit Kalra, Ravi Bhandari, Suchetana, Debasis 
Das
Description: Automated detection of bed occupancy has been 
useful to many applications including remote healthcare, elderly 
monitoring, fall detection, home automation, assisted and 
ambient living, and so on. The existing IoT based solutions for 
bed occupancy detection vary with respect to cost, accuracy 
and scalability. This is an engineering problem having specific 
focus on the choice of instruments, deployment strategy and 
approaches used for data collection and occupancy detection. 
In a typical hospital setup, the problem adds a few additional 
dimensions in terms of safety, scalability and administrative 
functionality. In this project, we design a low cost AIOT based 
solution for the bed occupancy detection problem in a hospital 
setup and plan to demonstrate the effectiveness of the solution 
by deploying a small prototype in the local hospitals.
Project Title: Social Distance Alert And Monitoring System 
Using Smartphone, IoT, And AI
Team Member: Suman Kundu
Description: Controlling the spread of a contagious disease 
is one of the best preventive measures against it. One such 
measure is to keep a safe social distance with others around. 
We developed an alarm system that can warn people when 
they violate designated social distancing norms. In this research 
work, we developed a wristband based on 2.4 GHz radio 
frequency that produces a sound alarm if two such devices 
come close (within 1 meter) to each other. The wrist band 
developed currently has three main features,
1.	
Sound Alarm: Helps to maintain social distance
2.	
Contact Tracing: Can be used if anyone is found positive 
and one wishes to trace contacts.
3.	
Flagging as Positive: Helps tracking the positive cases in the 
isolation/medical centers.
This device is beneficial for crowd management in controlled 
environments, like organizing seminars or conferences, 
maintaining queues at food junctions, and in classrooms.
Project Title: Strengthening 
Handwriting Recognition & Smart 
Annotation
Team Members: Gaurav Harit, 
Santanu Chaudhury
Description: The objective of this 
project is to develop a recognizer 
for online handwritten text written 
on the Samsung Flip Device. A 
dynamic RNN based encoder with 
a CTC decoder coupled with beam 
search decoder was developed 
using the TensorFlow lite platform. 
Data scarcity issue was addressed 
by training the model on the IAM 
dataset and fine tuning on the 
Samsung Flip Device examples.
61
Annual Report 2020_21

Project Title: AI-driven Screening of COVID-19 using Chest 
X-ray Images
Team Members: Richa Singh, Mayank Vatsa, Santanu 
Chaudhury
Description: With the rising number of COVID-19 cases in 
the country, it is crucial to increase the number of individuals 
getting tested so that appropriate measures can be taken. Due 
to the mismatch in the availability of kits and the number of 
individuals to be tested, it is essential to find additional accurate 
ways of testing and screening. This project aims to address the
problem of COVID-19 detection using cues present in frontal 
chest X-ray images. Chest X-ray contains vital information such 
as the presence of opacities, mismatch in lung ratios, and cues 
from bronchi. We have designed efficient and explainable 
multi-task machine learning models that not only predict 
whether the chest X-Ray has symptoms of COVID-19 or not, 
but it also presents the regions and characteristics based on 
which the model has given a particular prediction. We are 
collaborating with medical organizations for large scale testing 
and implementation of the technology.
Project Title: Development of Multimodal Search Framework 
for Architectural Floor plan
Team Member: Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay
Description: Floor plans are one of the many types of graphical 
documents which show structural planning and visually 
model the structure of a building. In architecture a floor plan is 
drawn to scale, showing a view from above, of the relationship 
between rooms, spaces and other features at one level of a 
structure. The project resulted in the following deliverables:
1.	
Creation of a large-scale floor plan image dataset.
2.	
Representation of scanned floor plan in an appropriate 
feature space for efficient retrieval.
3.	
Enable multimodal query based floor plan retrieval by 
means of image, sketch, and a mixture of image and sketch.
4.	
Development of an interactive floor plan retrieval interface 
to facilitate multimodal search.
62
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl. No. Project Title Sponsoring Agency Principal
Investigator Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.)
1. Knowledge Discovery from Images containing Text and
its application to Audio-Visual Dialogue Accenture Anand Mishra 14,64,633
2. Development of Multimodal Search Framework For
Architectural Floor Plan SERB Chiranjoy
Chattopadhayay 24,58,500
3. Development of computer vision techniques for image
content analysis and Retrieval IIT Jodhpur Chiranjoy
Chattopadhayay 17,80,000
4. Design and Implementation of Vehicular Network for
Future Intelligent Transportation Systems(ITS) IIT Jodhpur Debasis Das 15,00,000
5. Energy Efficient Communication and Data Flow in Smart
City using CRN based IoT Framework DST-Indo-Uzbek Debasis Das 17,80,200
6. Lightweight Anonymous Authentication and
Communication Protocol for Internet of Vehicles DST-TWN-MOST Debasis Das 42,22,000
7. Development of Application oriented AI Systems MEITY Deepak Mishra 39,82,000
8. A1 Driven Estimation of COVID-19 Prognosis using
Multimodal Data DST-RAKSHAK Deepak Mishra 10,00,000
9. A Wellness Device for Real-time Non-contact Blood Oxygen Saturation
Measurements Deepak Mishra 15,00,000
10. Information Access from Document Images of Indian
Languages MHRD & Meity Gaurav Harit 80,00,000
11. Strengthening Handwriting Recognition & Smart
Annotation Samsung India Electronics
Pvt. Ltd. Gaurav Harit 13,82,800
12. Text and Image Semantic Graphic MHRD Gaurav Harit 44,67,775
13. Young Faculty Research Fellowship (YFRF) of Visvesvarya
PhD Scheme MEITY Gaurav Harit 22,20,000
14. Detection and Prevention of Forged Obscene Images/
Videos in the Social Networks using Machine Learning
(A Social Media Engine for Discovering Doctoring in
Obscene Multimedia) MHA Mayank Vatsa 1,97,28,000
15. Swaranajayanti Fellowship DST Mayank Vatsa 63,33,337
16. Management of TBIOM and Newsletter IEEE Biometrics Council Mayank Vatsa 20,38,125
17. AI-driven diagnosis of COVID-19 using X-ray images DST-RAKSHAK Richa Singh 7,00,000
18. DETECTING SPOOFING AND DIGITAL ATTACKS ON FACE
IMAGES MEITY Richa Singh 72,15,000
19. Mitigation Bias in face recognition for vast regional
diversity in India Facebook India Online
Services Pvt Ltd Richa Singh 21,26,191
20. Non-Invasive Estimation of Care-Body Temperature,
Heart-Rate, SPO2 for Classification of subject AS Healthy
or Non-Healthy (Symptoms of
concern: fever despite ambient temperatures; silent
hypoxia-COVID-19) DST-RAKSHAK Romi Banerjee 10,00,000
21. Indian Heritage in Digital Space of Interdisciplinary
cyber physical Systems DST Santanu
Chaudhury 12,75,55,100
22. Software as a service for OCR system for Odia
Documents Images Meity Santanu
Chaudhury 20,16,000
23. Digital Representation Generation for Efficient Retrieval
of Bangla Document Images in Digital Libraries IIT K, MHRD Santanu
Chaudhury 76,00,000
Funded Research and Consultancy Projects
63
Annual Report 2020_21

Sl. No. Project Title Sponsoring Agency Principal
Investigator Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.)
24. Quantum Cryptanalysis SERB Somitra Kumar
Sanadhya 6,60,000
25. Social Distance Alert and Monitoring System Using
Smartphone,IOT and AI DST-RAKSHAK Suman Kundu 7,50,000
26. Predictive Maintenance and Quality Control in industries
under Industry 4.0 SERB Sumit Kalra 54,54,065
27. Smart Health Solutions for Rapid Mass Diagnosis for
COVID-19 DST-RAKSHAK Sumit Kalra 5,00,000
28. Source code similarity Growth Pond Sumit Kalra 1,00,000
29. Understanding Semantic Association Between Visual
and Textual Data: What lies ahead DST Yashashwi Verma 35,00,000
The department has seven research labs in the areas of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning, Vision and AR & VR, Systems 
and Software, and Theoretical Computer Science.
Cognitive and Social Analytics (CSA)
The CSA Lab at IIT Jodhpur deals with studies on human 
behavior from a number of perspectives to understand 
what it is to be ‘intelligent’ and how individual action-
ensembles lead to collective behavior. Currently the lab 
comprises of the following two groups:
Cognitive Analytics Group (headed by Romi Banerjee) 
- where we draw inspiration from the origin, evolution 
and development of fundamental cognitive abilities (e.g. 
language acquisition, aesthetic-sense, number-sense, time-
space continuum, spontaneous thought & imagination, 
contemplation) across all living species, towards the design 
an embodied, social (~empathetic) “thinking machine”
.
SoNAA: Social Network Analysis and Application Group 
(headed by Suman Kundu) - where we focus on building 
applications using social networks and collective behaviors, 
apart from solving fundamental questions on network 
analysis and mining. We work with data on relationships 
and relationships within data. The applications currently 
under consideration are to build support systems for 
decision making, accountability, control and behaviour, for 
governance.
Language Technology and 
Knowledge Management Lab
Research in this lab is broadly focused on information 
extraction, information access, and knowledge 
management. Thanks to internet technology and social
media, there is an enormous amount of data such as 
images, text, videos, speech, etc available around us. 
However, most of these data are unstructured and 
not directly useful to us. In this lab, we aim to harvest 
knowledge from these unstructured data and use 
multimodal context in indexing, retrieval, transcription, 
question-answering, translation, and summarization. In 
this regard, since language provides an excellent interface 
between AI systems and humans, understanding language 
is one of the major focuses as well. The lab focuses on the 
following themes:
■
Knowledge harvesting from the multimodal data
■
Knowledge-aware Computer Vision
■
Language understanding-driven Document Image 
Analysis
■
E-governance through Social Network.
Theoretical Computer Science (TCS)
The research in Theoretical Computer Science includes 
understanding the complexity of computational problems, 
and designing and analysing efficient algorithms. We are 
largely interested in the following areas: Cryptography, 
Quantum Computation, Computational Social Choice 
Theory, Parameterized Complexity.
Social Network Analysis and Application Group (headed by 
Suman Kundu) also focuses on developing algorithms for 
fundamental Complex Network problems. Current focus 
includes issues of community structure identification, 
partitioning and small space data structures of Streaming 
Graphs, finding structures out of multilayer and 
heterogeneous networks.
Research Labs
64
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Systems for Intelligence Networking, 
and Communications (SINC) Lab
The SINC Lab at CSE Department of IIT Jodhpur is pursuing 
research in the general area of computing systems with 
specific focus on systems for next generation of machine 
learning, data analytics, and communications. The group 
comprising of faculty members Dr. Debasis Das, Dr. 
Suchetana Chakraborty, Dr. Dip Sankar Banerjee, Dr. Sumit 
Kalra, and Dr. Ravi Bhandari is broadly engaged in some 
cutting edge problems related to smart cities, assisted 
living, low power architectures, and parallel computing.
Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks (VANETs) 
Lab
This laboratory is equipped with licensed QualNet Network 
Emulator Software, Duckiebots Setup, Implementation of 
Real Time Vehicular Networks Testbed (using OBU & RSU) 
and open source software such as ns2/ns3 and OmNet++ 
among many others. The students also get hands-on 
training through experiments using Network Hardware 
(i.e., IoT devices, Raspberry Pi, Routers, Switches, Firewalls, 
PCs, Servers, Laptops, Sensors, and Arduino) which help to 
monitor network usage, bandwidth, throughput, delay and 
security attacks.
Samsung AR-VR Innovation 
Laboratory
The Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality (AR/VR) 
Innovation lab at IIT Jodhpur was established on November 
20, 2020. The lab is a joint initiative between IIT Jodhpur 
and Samsung R&D Institute India-Delhi (SRI-D). The lab 
is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities and high-end 
equipment, allowing the users to create technology 
solutions and stimulate skilling and re-skilling educational 
programs in AR-VR, which can have a transformative 
impact on society and technology. AR and VR are finding 
applications in diverse fields like education, industrial
design, robotics, infrastructure management, and medicine. 
Students of different programs in the Institute will be able 
to take advantage of this facility.
Visual Interaction and 
Understanding Lab
The focus of this lab is on various problems related to 
visual understanding. These include recognition (detection, 
categorisation and retrieval), biometric and behavioural 
analysis (face, gesture and body pose), low-level vision, 
image and video synthesis, vision+ language tasks (image 
captioning, visual question answering and cross-modal 
retrieval), segmentation, shape analysis, and 3D from multi 
view and sensors. These problems are addressed in a data-
driven manner using various machine learning techniques 
(both by adapting the existing ones as well as proposing 
new ones), and are studied in the context of different 
domains, such as scanned documents, architectural layout 
plans, natural scenes, activity videos, etc.
Trusted AI and Biometrics Lab
The Image Analysis and Biometrics Lab focuses on 
designing accurate and trustable biometrics and image 
forensics systems. We work on multiple biometric 
modalities including face, fingerprint, iris, and multimodal. 
The lab focuses on a wide range of challenging real-world 
scenarios such as recognition/analysis in varying spectra 
(VIS/NIR), varying resolutions, and matching across 
different domains. Beyond biometrics, the lab also focuses 
on developing algorithms for core machine learning 
challenges such as learning with small sample size data 
and online learning. While solving problems with direct 
applicability to real-world scenarios, the lab also focuses on 
making machine learning algorithms adversarially robust 
and developing dependable and trusted solutions across 
different domains and applications.
65
Annual Report 2020_21

Faculty Research Area Organization Country
Dip Sankar Banerjee Digital Devices Johari Digital India
Mayank Vatsa Dependable AI iHub-Drishti India
Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh Machine Learning NVIDIA India
Ravi Bhandari Mobile Systems Nvidia India
Richa Singh Dependable AI iHub-Drishti India
Richa Singh, Mayank Vatsa Machine Learning, Trustability Facebook USA
Richa Singh, Mayank Vatsa, Santanu
Chaudhury Medical Image Analysis Tele-Radiology Solutions India
Richa Singh, Mayank Vatsa, Santanu
Chaudhury Medical Image Analysis CARING, Mahajan Imaging India
Sumit Kalra IoT Uniconverge Technologies Pvt. Ltd. India
Dip Sankar Banerjee High Performance Computing IIIT Hyderabad, IIT Tirupati India
Mayank Vatsa Medical Image Analysis PGI Chandigarh India
Software Innovation Laboratory
The lab research focus areas are Software Architecture to design 
and develop modern scalable software solutions in the various 
domains. The current sub-themes in the lab are:
1.	
Telemedicine Solutions: It includes development of 
advanced data architecture and provides innovative 
solutions for Healthcare Data Management using on-
premise or cloud services. It also focuses on integrating
telecommunication with existing clinical processes to make 
them more efficient and reliable.
2.	
Industrial IoT Solutions: Industrial IoT requires processing 
a huge amount of data and analyse it for predictive 
maintenance. Designing such a real time system to manage 
unreliable sensor data is one of the focus areas of the lab.
Collaborations
The faculty members of the department of Computer Science and Engineering have collaborations with several institutions and 
industries in India and abroad. Following are the details of the collaborations.
66
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Faculty Research Area Organization Country
Richa Singh Medical Image Analysis AIIMS Rishikesh India
Richa Singh Medical Image Analysis AIIMS Jodhpur India
Sumit Kalra Software Architecture IIT Dhanbad India
Mayank Vatsa Biometrics SUNY, University at Buffalo USA
Mayank Vatsa Biometrics TAMU, Kingsville USA
Richa Singh Biometrics SUNY, University at Buffalo USA
Richa Singh Biometrics TAMU, Kingsville USA
Sumit Kalra Telemedicine Queensland University of Technology Australia
Sumit Kalra Software Architecture University of Sannio Italy
Speaker Affiliation (with country) Title of the talk
Dr. Heena Rathore Assistant Professor,
University of Texas, SA, USA Brain Variable Reward Structure for
Cooperative Machine Learning in IoT Network
Prof. Sajal K. Das Professor and Daniel St. Clair Endowed Chair,
Missouri University of Science and Technology Rolla, MO From Smart-Sensing to Smart Living
Dr. Joscha Bach VP of Research at AI Foundation, San Francisco What would make an intelligent system
generally intelligent?
Dr. Nimrod Talmon Ben-Gurion University, Israel Participatory Budgeting - Making Budgeting
Great Again
Prof. Nalini K. Ratha Empire Innovation Professor
School of Engineering and Applied Sciences
University of Buffalo Trustworthy AI Systems.
Dr. Ishan Misra Research Scientist
Facebook AI Research (FAIR) Multi-view invariance and grouping for self-
supervised learning
Prof. Saket Saurabh Professor of Theoretical Computer Science,
Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, India. Picking Random Vertices
Dr. Anush Sankaran Senior Research Scientist, DeepLite, Canada Why do we need to Optimize Deep Learning
Models?
Outreach Activities
The department of Computer Science and Engineering is 
actively engaged in a number of outreach activities showcasing 
state of the art trends and development across numerous areas. 
Some of these initiatives are described as follows.
Department Webinars
The department of Computer Science and Engineering started a 
semimonthly webinar series in 2020 comprising talks on various 
topics in Computer Science & Engineering. We invite eminent 
speakers from various institutes as well as industries. These talks 
are open for everybody across the world, and approximately 
100 people from outside IITJ have registered for attending the 
webinars. We organized the following talks in 2020-2021.
67
Annual Report 2020_21

Faculty Venue Title Month, Year
Anand Mishra IIIT Sri City, Chittor (virtual) Introduction to Neural Networks February 2021
Anand Mishra 11th Indo German Frontier of
Engineering Conference (INDOGFE
2021) IIT Kharagpur (virtual) Multimodal Machine Learning for
Enhanced Image Understanding February 2021
Debasis Das IIT (ISM) Dhanbad Lightweight Secure Communication
and Searching Protocol for Vehicular
Cloud Computing (VCC) November 2020
Debasis Das Indian Institute of Technology (IIT),
BHU, Varanasi 5G and Beyond Networks for smart
Transportation January 2021
Mayank Vatsa National Defense College AI and Machine Learning: Challenges
and Opportunities March 2021
Mayank Vatsa BOSCH Adversarial Perturbations in Deep
Learning March 2021
Mayank Vatsa RAISE Decent AI, Role of Data for
Responsible AI 2020
Pallavi Jain IMSc weekly PC seminar Committee Selection Problem:
Recent Advancements February, 2021
Richa Singh, Mayank
Vatsa, Nalini Ratha 8th ACM IKDD CODS and 26th
COMAD, India2021 Trustworthy AI January 2021
Somitra Sanadhya 31st Annual Conference of Rajasthan
Ganita Parishad Foundational Role of Mathematics in
Cryptography 13-14th March, 2021
Somitra Sanadhya Data Security Council of India (DSCI) Security Research Bottleneck ...
Lab, Program Set-up, Problem
Statements, Industry Connects, &
Data Sets 14-16 December 2020
Somitra Sanadhya,
Debasis Das Cybersecurity: Contemporary Issues,
Challenges and Countermeasures School of Management &
Entrepreneurship, IIT Jodhpur, 12-13-15 December 2020
Suman Kundu Five Day National Police Perspective Social Media Analytics February 8, 2021
Suman Kundu Social Media Analytics NIFT Jodhpur October 14, 2021
Our Faculty Webinars & Events
The faculty members of the department of Computer Science and Engineering were invited to give talks at the following places and 
events.
68
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Department of Electrical 
Engineering
The Department of Electrical Engineering primarily focuses on 
imparting quality education and preparing students to face the 
future technological challenges. The Vision of the Department 
is to generate and disseminate knowledge and develop 
technologies in emerging domains of Electrical Engineering 
to meet the national and global needs. The Department is 
committed to engage in high quality research by Faculty 
Members and Students, and in the pursuit of excellence in 
teaching.
The Mission of the Department is
■
To impart education with emphasis on fundamental 
knowledge and its applications through pedagogical 
innovations including experiential learning, synchronous 
and asynchronous instructional delivery,
■
To make significant contributions in fundamental research 
and advancing technology in different areas of Electrical 
Engineering with emphasis on Cyber Physical Systems, 
Artificial Intelligence of Things, 5G and Beyond Systems, 
and Smart Grid,
■
To contribute towards innovation, technology 
development, IP generation, and entrepreneurship 
involving the thrust areas of Electrical Engineering,
■
To collaborate with various organizations for research, 
teaching and technology development, to synchronize and 
contribute towards the transformational changes in the 
Electrical Engineering landscape, and
■
To enhance the perception of the Department through 
different avenues and contribute towards continuing 
education and upskilling programs.
The Department offers B.Tech. in Electrical Engineering 
and two state-of-the-art M.Tech. programs in Sensors and 
Internet of Things (SIoT) and Cyber Physical Systems (CPS). The 
Department also offers M.Tech.- Ph.D. Dual Degree programs 
in Communication and Signal Processing (CSP), Sensors and 
Internet of Things (SIoT) and Cyber Physical Systems (CPS). The 
Ph.D. program of the Department covers a wide range of research 
areas, such as Microelectronics, VLSI and Computing Systems, 
Signal Processing, Communication Engineering, RF, Microwave & 
Photonics, Power Engineering, and Control systems.
Technology Tracks currently pursued by the Department 
include emerging and challenging fields that culminate 
at the intersection of several traditional research areas. 
Department faculty members are also engaged in ground-
breaking interdisciplinary research in collaboration with faculty 
members across various departments through the Institute’s 
Interdisciplinary Research Platforms (IDRPs). xc
Current Technology Tracks
69
Annual Report 2020_21

Active collaborations are on-going with organizations like 
UC Berkeley, Carleton University, TIMA laboratory (Grenoble, 
France), Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Norwegian 
University of Science and Technology (Gjovik, Norway), Higher 
Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology of Sousse (Tunisia), 
IISc Bangalore, IIT Delhi, IIT Kanpur, IIT Mandi, IIT Bombay, IIITM 
Kerala, IIT Madras, IIST Thiruvananthapuram, Society for Applied 
Microwave Electronics Engineering and Research, Indian Space 
Research Organization, Freescale Semiconductors, Global 
Foundries, AIIMS Jodhpur, Defence Research and Development 
Organization.
The Department won many accolades during 2020-21 at the 
Institute level including 2020 Teaching Excellence Awards, 
Research Excellence Award, and the Meritorious Staff Award. 
During the Covid pandemic, the Department adopted 
innovative teaching initiatives for prompt and smooth 
transition into online teaching. The Department also formed its 
Departmental Society that would organize various webinars, 
events, and workshops for the students throughout the year.
Name & Research Areas
Arun Kumar Singh
Head of Department 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Communication Theory, 
Wireless and Mobile 
Communications, 
Satellite based 
Navigation Systems, 
Spread Spectrum 
Systems
Amit Bhardwaj
Human Haptics, 
Computer Haptics, 
Haptics for 
Teleoperation and 
Applications of 
Machine Learning
Aashish Mathur
Power Line 
Communications, 
Free Space Optical 
Communications, 
Visible Light 
Communications
Anil Kumar Tiwari
Electrical Engineering: 
Image Processing, 
Video Processing, 
and Signal Processing 
application in Bio-
Medical
Abdul Gafoor Shaik
Protection of various 
components of Power 
Systems, Protection of 
Distribution Network with DG 
penetration, Power Quality 
assessment & mitigation in 
Distribution Networks with 
Renewable Energy Source 
penetration
Anoop Jain
Cooperative Control; 
Multi-Agent Systems; 
Formation Control; 
Nonlinear Control; 
Event-Triggered 
Control, Cyber-Physical 
Systems
Amandeep Kaur
Analog and Mixed-Signal 
Circuit Design, Data 
Converters (ADC, DAC), 
High-speed circuits, 
CMOS image sensors
Arani Ali Khan
Microwave Circuits
The Faculty Members associated with the Department during 2020-21 are as follows:
70
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Arpit Khandelwal
Group III-V 
Optoelectronic 
Devices, Fiber Optics 
and Integrated Optics 
Sensors, Non-Linear 
Photonics, Silicon 
Photonics and Optical 
Communication
Deepakkumar M. 
Fulwani
Control and state 
estimation of uncertain 
systems, Power system, 
Control issues in wind 
energy conversion 
system
Harshit Agarwal
Industry standard 
compact modeling; 
Analog and RF 
modeling, Energy 
efficient next 
generation transistors, 
emerging memories
Himanshu Kumar
Image and Video 
Processing, Computer 
Vision, Computational 
Imaging, Deep Learning
Jai Narayan 
Tripathi
VLSI Circuits and 
Systems, Signal Integrity, 
Power Integrity, 
Design of Experiments, 
Metaheuristic 
Optimization Techniques
Kamaljit Rangra
MEMS, Transducers and 
Actuators
Mahesh Kumar
Group III-V quantum structures 
by MBE, Growth of thin films 
and nanostructures, Group 
III-nitride alloys for LEDs, HEMTs 
and photovoltaic applications, 
Inorganic-Inorganic hybrid 
structures, Si and wide band gap 
semiconductors for MEMS, Micro 
and Nano device fabrications
Manish Narwaria
Multimedia signal 
processing
Niladri Sekhar 
Tripathy 
Dynamics and Control, 
Mechatronics and 
Cyber Physical Systems
Nitin Bhatia
Fiber Optics and 
Photonics
Rajendra Nagar
Computer Vision; 
Image Processing; 
Computer Graphics; 
3D Shape Analysis; 
Geometry Processing
Rajlaxmi Chouhan
Image processing, 
Image enhancement 
and quality assessment, 
e-learning tools and 
pedagogies
71
Annual Report 2020_21

Saakshi 
Dhanekar
Nano-sensors for 
societal applications, 
device development, 
gas- and bio-sensors, 
MEMS, silicon based 
devices
Ajay Agarwal
Microelectronics; 
Micro- Nano-
technologies; Sensors; 
Micro-fluidics, Point-of-
Care devices and Early 
diagnostics
Sasi Vinay 
Pachetti
Physical Layer Security, 
MIMO, Wireless 
communication
Sandeep Kumar 
Yadav
Signal Processing, 
Condition Monitoring, 
Image Processing, Data 
Compression, Blind 
Source Separation, 
Artificial Neural 
Network
Binod Kumar
SoC Design Verification 
& Testing, Hardware 
Security & Trust, 
Hardware Design for 
AI, VLSI CAD, Computer 
Architecture
Shree Prakash 
Tiwari
Microelectronics 
& VLSI Technology, 
Microfabrication, 
Organic Electronics, 
Device Physics and 
Characterization, New 
Device Structures
Sai Kiran M. P. R.
Millimeter-wave 
Communications; 
Autonomous Vehicular 
Communications; 
Internet of Things; 
Cyber-Physical Systems; 
Wireless Network 
Modeling and Analysis
Soumava 
Mukherjee
Microwave 
Communication
Ravi Yadav
Power system 
dynamics, Wide area 
monitoring systems, 
anomaly detection and 
characterization, AI/ML 
applications to power 
systems, and cyber-attack 
modelling and diagnosis
Name & Research Areas
Dr. Dushyant Sharma (Control Systems) served as a Young Faculty Associate in the Department during 2020-21.
The following Faculty Members joined the Department after April 2021.
The Department had the following Adjunct 
Faculty Members during 2020-21.
1.	
Akshay Kumar Rathore
Associate Professor, Electrical and 
Computer Engineering
Concordia University, Montreal, Canada
2.	
Tapan Mishra
Senior Advisor to Secretary, DOS/ 
Chairman, Indian Space Research 
Organisation
Former Director, Space Application Center, 
Ahmedabad, ISRO
3.	
Ajoy Kumar Ray
Professor, Electronics & Electrical 
Communication Engineering
Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur
4.	
Hari Mohan Gupta
Formerly Professor (HAG), Department of 
Electrical Engineering,
Indian Institute of Technology Delhi
5.	
Rajesh Kumar Sharma
Former Director, Solid State Physics 
Laboratory, Delhi
72
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

The following laboratories are functioning in the Department of Electrical Engineering.
1. CPS Modelling Laboratory
2. Control & Computing Laboratory
3. Electronics Laboratory
The CPS modelling laboratory is designed to study the 
interaction of physical and cyber components by means of 
modelling for better understanding of the overall system. 
Modelling of a CPS can be performed using appropriate 
tools and software. Various simulators such as helicopter
simulators are also available in this laboratory which helps in 
understanding the model of various cyber physical systems and 
their application in real life. The lab is equipped with modern 
modelling software and tools such as COMSOL Multiphysics 
modelling software, MATLAB, State flow.
This lab provides students with real life experience of control 
system theory by providing exposure to system modelling, 
Digital and analog data acquisition systems, controller design 
and electro-mechanical interfacing. This laboratory is also 
equipped with softwares and tools needed for performing 
experiments on processor architecture, real time scheduling 
algorithms and embedded processors. The embedded 
processors that are available in this laboratory come equipped 
with rich peripherals like GPIOs, Timers, Analog inputs, I2C 
Bus, USART, RTC etc. The students learn how to program these 
using C and assembly programming languages. The knowledge 
of assembly programming language helps students to
understand the working of low level drivers whereas they learn 
the Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL) for accessing different 
peripherals through high level languages like C.
The lab also includes equipment and simulation kits useful 
for realizing the various DSP techniques into hardware. The 
lab aims to provide the experience of developing various DSP 
algorithms and then porting them to the hardware for real time 
applications. Thus, this bridges the necessary gap of DSP Theory 
and development of hardware aware DSP algorithms. The 
experiments in the DSP lab range from basic implementation 
of sampling, filtering, Fourier transform to complex real-life 
applications such as noise cancellation, audio processing etc.
The Electronics Lab is based on hands-on experimentation, 
and exposes students to the basic building blocks of electronic 
circuitry and measurement procedures. The lab includes 
experiments on PN diodes, zener regulators, transistor switches 
and amplifiers, digital logic design using gate level ICs, and 
microcontroller-based design. The lab allows the students 
to engage in creative design thinking and implement small 
projects such as rectifiers, audio amplifiers, automatic light 
controllers, digital counters and finite state machines. In the 
process, the students also learn the use of Function Generator, 
Power Supply and Digital Storage Oscilloscope available in the 
lab.
The Electronics Lab is used for academic activities for the 
following courses along with B.Tech. Projects across the 
Institute:
■
Introduction to Electrical Engineering
■
Digital Logic & Design
Facilities available in the laboratory:
■
Arbitrary Function Generator (Tektronics (AFG3021B - 
25MHz)
■
Digital storage oscilloscope (Agilent & DSO1022A - 200MHz)
■
Digital Multimeter 61/2 Digit (Agilent 34410A)
73
Annual Report 2020_21

■
Programmable DC Power Supply (Scientific PSD9005 
-30V/1A, 5V/5A)
■
Universal IC Tester (VPL-UICT)
■
Soldering Iron Station (Xytronics LF-2000)
■
Arduino Uno Microcontroller and Sensors
In 2020, a 3D Virtual Walkthrough of the Electronics Lab was 
created to allow incoming students to enjoy an immersive 
experience during their lab sessions. Video demonstrations of 
lab experiments were also created in this lab during the online 
classes.
74
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

4. Energy Conversion & Systems Laboratory
The Energy Conversion & Systems Lab is dedicated for research 
and academic activities in the areas of power engineering 
and electrical machines. Power engineering, also called power 
systems engineering, is a subfield of electrical engineering 
that deals with the generation, transmission, distribution, 
and utilization of electric power, and the electrical apparatus 
connected to such systems.
Facilities available in the laboratory:
■
DC machines
■
Induction machines
■
Synchronous machines
■
Transformers
■
Synchronization panel
■
Directional over current relay
■
Differential relays
■
Continuous Variable Auto Transformer
■
Transformers Rheostat, Ammeters, Voltmeters, Wattmeters, 
Multimeters, resistive and inductive loads inductive loads
75
Annual Report 2020_21

5. Electronic Circuit Simulation & VLSI Systems 
Laboratory
6. Image Processing & Computer Vision Laboratory
Electronic Circuit Simulation & VLSI Systems Lab was developed 
to support the fabless design activities. It hosts various 
design and simulation tools related to VLSI design and TCAD 
simulations with the aim of designing low power systems for 
future IoT applications. Following are the summary of resources. 
Many of the VLSI Design tools are supported through the SMDP-
C2SD project from the Ministry of Information Technology, Govt. 
of India, in addition to the tools supported by the Institute.
■
VLSI Design and Circuit Simulation: Various VLSI Design 
Tools and FPGA kits (with 5 Workstations) obtained under 
SMDP-C2SD project. 11 Workstations are hosted as a part of 
Electronic Circuits Simulations and Systems Laboratory
■
Device Simulation: Synopsys ISE-TCAD tools for simulation 
of conventional as well as novel devices.
This lab is used for research as well as conducting lab 
experiments related to VLSI design to our M.Tech. students, 
specifically M.Tech. in Sensors and IoT.
The Image Processing and Computer Vision Lab of the 
Department of Electrical Engineering currently focuses on 
research in the areas of computer vision, image processing, 
machine learning and multimedia signal analysis.
Research Areas
■
Video and Image Coding
■
Development of low-cost devices for health monitoring
■
Digital Watermarking
■
Image enhancement and restoration
■
No-reference Image quality assessment
■
Noise-aided image processing
Research Facilities
■
RGB-D Motion Sensor
■
Dell Precision Tower
■
Dell Precision 5820 Tower XCTO
■
Nikon Camera D5600 with 18-55 mm lens and accessories
■
Acer 4K Display
■
Netgear Network Attached Storage
76
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

7. Internet of Things (IoT) Laboratory
8. Microelectronics Laboratory
Internet of Things (IoT) uses physical objects embedded with 
sensors, readout electronics, networking, communication, 
enabling intelligent data exchange or storage between 
these devices. Within the last decade, various commercial IoT 
products are available in the market. These are widely used in 
applications like smart health care and monitoring, autonomous
vehicles, smart home, smart city applications and others. IoT 
lab encourages interdisciplinary research where different 
departments share the common platform.
This laboratory is used for research as well as conducting lab 
experiments related to Sensors & IoT lab for M.Tech. students in 
Sensors and IoT.
Microelectronics lab was developed to support the fabrication 
of discrete devices. It is mainly a research laboratory focusing on 
low cost devices and sensors for various applications. Currently, 
various devices such as Organic Field-Effect Transistors and Gas 
Sensors are routinely fabricated and characterized. Following is 
the summary of the facilities of this laboratory.
Research Areas
■
Organic and Flexible Electronics: OFETs, Circuits, and 
Sensors:
To reduce the detrimental impact of E-waste on the 
earth, electronic products need to be developed which 
leave minimum footprints on earth at the end of their 
lifespan. This technology offers advantages over inorganic 
electronics with the possibility of development of 
systems on unconventional substrates that can even be of 
biodegradable nature. Details of this work can be found on 
the page of FLAME Research Group.
■
Thin-Film Device and Sensor Development:
Sensors based on various materials including oxide metal 
semiconductors, and 2D materials such as MoS2 are 
being fabricated for various applications using gases and 
pollutants. Eventual aim is to develop integrated sensors 
which can be enabled for IoT applications. Other Sensors 
such as biosensors, and MEMS based sensors are also being 
explored.
■
New Material and Devices:
Bandgap engineering and surface studies of 
semiconductors, AlGaN/GaN HEMTs, Compact Modelling 
and Simulation.
Facilities available in the laboratory
■
Device Fabrication: Mask Aligner, Thermal Evaporation 
System, E-beam Evaporation System, Chemical Vapour 
Deposition System, RF Sputtering, Atomic layer deposition, 
Mask Aligner, Fume hoods
77
Annual Report 2020_21

■
Characterization: Keithely 4200 SCS, Probe station, Gas 
Sensing Characterization Setup, Hall Effect Measurement, 
Profilometer.
■
Sensor and Transducer Design and Simulation Tools
o	
CoventorWare® Integrated software suite for designing 
and simulating MEMS sensors and actuators. A versatile 
FEM and BEM based tool set, has material properties 
database, creates or imports a 2-D layout and can 
build 3D models in conjunction with process flow 
information. Important modules consist of (i) Designer - 
Material Properties Editor, Process Editor, Layout Editor, 
Foundry Design Kits (ii) Analyzer Meshing, MemElectro, 
MemMech, CoSolve, Parametric Simulations, 
Visualization (iii) Advanced Solvers and Reduced Order 
Modelling.
■
Mentor Graphics HEP Software: Tanner MEMS design (layout 
editor) and IC Design suite consist of Tanner L-Edit, S-Edit, 
T-spice, Eldo and Nitro SoC etc.
This lab was developed to support the fabrication of discrete 
devices and mainly focusing on low cost devices and sensors 
for various applications. Currently, various devices such as 
Organic Field-Effect Transistors and Gas Sensors are routinely 
fabricated and characterized. Main research areas of this lab 
are organic/flexible electronics, micro/nano electronics, and 
new semiconductor devices. Natural proteins such as gelatin 
and other eco-friendly materials are integrated in the process 
technology to add biodegradability to the devices. Bio-mimetic 
applications are also being explored. Recently, the devices with 
gelatin dielectric were demonstrated as a real-time human 
Breath Rate Analyzer. In 2020, research conducted successfully 
in the laboratory yielded many top rated journal articles and 
conference papers.
78
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

9. Microgrid & Real-time Simulator Laboratory
The microgrid and real time simulator laboratory carries out 
research in the areas of Electric vehicles, DC microgrid and the 
control issues in Power Converters. For the purpose of micro-
grid research, this laboratory has been equipped with a real time 
simulator. It also has a test bench for the purpose of micro-grid 
research. The microgrid test bench has the ability to test power 
sharing schemes and complex control algorithms. For research 
on electric vehicles the laboratory has access to research 
controllers for Electric Two wheelers and Three Wheelers.
The laboratory also has some other resources like Yokogawa 
WT3000 power analyzer, Semikron power boost converters,
Hameg programmable LCR bridge, Xytronic LF2000 High-power 
soldering station, Chroma DC Electronic load, DC Programmable 
power supply and Opal-RT Real-time Simulator.
At present the laboratory is hosting two projects, one is funded 
by SERB on development of a system to mitigate second order 
harmonics in hybrid Microgrid. The second project is funded 
by DHI and some industries on development of controllers 
for electric two wheelers/three wheelers. In 2020, research 
conducted in the laboratory produced 07 top rated Journal 
articles and many conference papers.
10. Power Electronics & Drives Laboratory
The Power Electronics & Drives Laboratory is utilized for 
undergraduate studies and research in the area of power 
electronics-based power conversion systems, control systems 
and electrical drives. The laboratory offers facilities for UG and 
PG students, faculties, project staff and researchers to conduct 
research in the areas of power converters and AC/DC micro-
grid. The laboratory is equipped with state-of-art test and 
measurement instruments, converters, power supplies and 
programming boards.
Major equipment available in this lab are:
1.	
High Precision Power Analyzer –YOKOGAWA WT3000
2.	
DSO- Tektronix 200MHz (DPO 2024) and 1GHz (DPO 4104B)
3.	
Function Generator-Tektronix AFG 3021B
4.	
Power Supply: 0-32V, 3A; 0-32, 10A
5.	
Three-phase inverter drive
6.	
Three-phase inverter stacks
7.	
DC-DC converters
8.	
Differential currents probes
9.	
Isolation Transformers
10. FPGA training kits
This lab is dedicated to the study of power electronics and 
electrical drives. Research and teaching activities are carried 
out in the following areas:
■
Study the performance of various power electronic 
converter
■
Triggering circuit for SCR firing
■
Study the operation of single-phase and three-phase 
converters
■
Study of AC voltage regulators
■
Study of zero voltage switching
■
Study of zero current switching
■
Performance of DSP based 3-ph Induction Motor drive 
using SCR
■
Performance of DSP based 3-ph Induction Motor drive 
using IGBT
79
Annual Report 2020_21

11. Signal Processing Laboratory
The Signal Processing Laboratory 
facilitates research in the areas 
centered around Signal Processing, 
Condition Monitoring, Image 
Processing, Data Compression, Blind 
Source Separation and Artificial 
Neural Network. The current 
research themes are:
■
Automatic Modulation 
Classification
■
Modelling of Complex Networks
■
Automatic Fault Diagnosis in 
distribution Networks
The laboratory is equipped with 
modern test and measuring 
instruments. This enables UG and 
PG students, faculties, project staff 
and researchers to work efficiently 
in the fields of signal processing, 
neural network, image and speech 
processing, etc. Major equipment 
available in this lab are:
■
NI PXI-5652 Signal Generator
■
NI PXI-5611 RF Up-Converter
■
NI PXIe-5450 Arbitrary 
Waveform Generator
■
NI PXIe-5601 RF Down-
Converter
■
NI PXIe-5622 Digitizer
■
NI PXIe-5791 Adapter Module
■
NI 8880 Controller
■
USRP 2920
80
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

12. Smart Grid Laboratory
13. Wireless and Microwave Laboratory
This lab is dedicated to the study of distributed generations and 
their integration to the electrical grid. Research work is carried 
out in the following areas:
■
Integration of solar PV and Wind energy systems into the 
electrical grid
■
Control of distributed generation
■
Integration of distributed FACTS devices
■
Power quality issues in the integration of distributed 
generation
Facilities
■
Solar power generating Experimental Equipment Model: 
KTE 7000SG
■
Wind power plant Model no. EWG 1
This lab is dedicated to the study of all aspects of testing and 
characterization of wireless communication signals. In addition, 
the lab also also consists of facilities dedicated to microwave 
active and passive devices. The research activities conducted in 
the lab are as follows:
■
Design and characterization of Microwave antenna and 
passive circuits (filters, couplers, crossover etc.)
■
Design and characterization of Microwave active circuits 
(LNA, PA etc.)
The lab is also conducted for teaching activities which are as 
follows:
■
Contemporary Communication System Laboratory
■
Communications Engineering Lab.
■
RFIC laboratory
Facilities
■
ENA Series Network Analyzer (300KHz-20GHz).
■
ENA Series Network Analyzer (100KHz-4.5GHz).
■
Power Meter.
■
Triple Output DC Power Supply.
■
Function Waveform Generator (300MHz).
■
EXA Signal Analyzer (9KHz-3.6GHz).
■
EXA Signal Analyzer (9KHz-26.5GHz).
■
MXG Analog Signal Generator (100KHz-3GHz).
■
MXG Analog Signal Generator (100KHz-20GHz).
■
ME1000 RF Training Kit (Tx-Rx).
■
ME1300 Antenna Training Kit (Tx-Rx).
■
ME1100 Digital RF Communication Kit.
■
VSA89600 Software 1 set for 15 users).
■
Digital Phosphor Oscilloscope (200MHz).
■
Oscilloscope (200MHz).
■
Single Channel Arbitrary/Function Generator (25MHz).
■
NI PXIe-1075 Chassis: NI PXIe-8108 Controller, NI PXIe-5652, 
NI PXIe-5601, NI PXIe-5622, NI PXIe-5450, NI PXIe-5611, NI 
PXI-5600, NI PXI-5610, NI PXI-5441, NI PXIe-5641R, NI PXI-
5691, NI PXI-5652, NI Developer suit for Lab-view DS1 2011, 
NI Modulation Tool kit 4.3, NI Modulation Tool kit 4.1, NI 
Modulation Tool kit 4.2.1, NI Spectral Measurement 2.5.1.
■
Logic Analyzer TLA6404.
With the rapid technological improvements in hand-
held devices such as tablets and mobile phones, the 
requirement of faster access to wireless resources is ever 
increasing. The Microwave & millimeter-wave research 
group mainly focuses on design and characterization of 
active and passive components for modern transceivers. 
Currently, a broad study of microwave/ millimeter-wave 
circuits and systems based on substrate integrated coaxial 
line (SICL) technology is conducted by this group to explore 
the self-packaged, low-group delay, low-loss and wideband 
transmission properties of SICL.
81
Annual Report 2020_21

14. Wireless Communications and Navigation 
Laboratory
The Wireless Communications and Navigation Lab’s research 
spans several aspects of wireless communications and 
communication signal processing, with the aim to provide 
for theoretical breakthroughs as well as practical solutions to 
problems pertaining to futuristic communication networks. In 
particular, the focus is on the information theoretic performance 
analysis of wireless communication systems including multiuser 
communication networks, cooperative communication 
networks, MIMO communication systems, and algorithmic 
solutions to satellite based navigation receiver design. Our 
research is highly conducive to multi-disciplinary collaboration; 
it builds on a diverse set of theoretical breakthroughs in 
information theory, communication theory, large deviation 
theory, matrix theory, linear algebra, and coding theory.
Facilities available in the laboratory:
■
Computing Facility- In addition to the high performance 
computation facility of the institute the lab has several 
workstations for system simulation studies.
■
Testbed Facility 2x2 Multiple Input Multiple Output 
Transceiver Setup, NI USRP units, GNSS Satellite Signal 
Acquisition Setup, NavIC Software Signal Simulator and 
Receiver, IoT Network Setup
■
Equipment: Data Acquisition Unit, Logic Analyzer
The work includes design and development of baseband 
signal processing algorithms for signal acquisition, code 
and carrier tracking, control lock detection, accumulated
82
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

delta range computation and data demodulation for NavIC 
System. The scope of the proposed work also includes 
development of algorithms, for multipath mitigation, 
anti-jamming and anti-spoofing, that ensure proper 
functioning of NavIC receivers even in the indoor and 
urban environments with relatively high interference 
levels. Satellite signals are captured and recorded, further 
to be used for receiver development and other academic 
purposes. And in our laboratory an active work going in 
wireless sensor networking with RF energy harvesting and
IoT development. Research on wireless sensor networking 
is ongoing with the introduction of supercapacitors in 
contrast to ideal batteries. Modelling of the imperfection 
in such systems, particularly in the context of RF 
energy harvesting has been done recently. Further, the 
development of IoT networking with generic protocol stack 
is going on with availability of various IoT modules in the 
lab. Integration of various sensors with IoT modules, testing, 
data acquisition etc., have been key recent activities.
Outreach
1.	
Soumava Mukherjee delivered the following invited talks:
i.	
Designing of Substrate Integrated Waveguide (SIW) 
Antennas, IEEE MTT-S and AP-S SBC, Department of 
ECE, Manipal University Jaipur
ii.	
Substrate Integrated Circuits – microwave and 
millimeterwave applications, IEEE Microwave Theory 
& Techniques Society (MTT-S) Student Branch Chapter 
(SBC) IIT BHU Varanasi
iii. Application of Substrate Integrated Circuits in 
Microwave and Millimeterwave Frequencies, IIT 
Palakkad & IEEE APS Kerala
iv. Microwave or Milimetrewave based RFID sensors 
for IOT, TEQIP-III Sponsored Workshop on “Emerging 
Trends in Nanotechnology(ETNT-2020)”
v.	
5G millimeterwave antennas and circuits using 
substrate integrated coaxial line (SICL) technology, 
Webinar series on Recent trends in Antenna Engg. And 
Nanotechnology, MIT, Manipal
83
Annual Report 2020_21

vi. Slot antennas - theory and recent application, Gauhati University
vii. 5G millimeterwave antennas and circuits using substrate integrated coaxial line 
(SICL) technology, Workshop on Advanced Design in RF, IEEE HMRITM Student 
Branch New Delhi
2.	
Aashish Mathur delivered an expert talk on “Optical Wireless Communication” on 29th 
July, 2020 for faculties, research scholars, and students of the RGPV affiliated institutions 
under TEQIP-III, RGPV, Bhopal.
3.	
Aashish Mathur delivered an invited talk as an eminent speaker at NIT Sikkim on 
“Free-Space Optical Communications” on 18th March, 2021 in the TEQIP-III sponsored 
online one week workshop on “Modern Wireless Communication Systems and Antenna 
Engineering with Experimental Learning” from 15th to 20th of March, 2021.
4.	
Rajlaxmi Chouhan conducted the following invited talks/workshop sessions/FDP 
sessions:
May 2020 The Online Classroom Experience, Faculty Development Program organized 
by J G College of Commerce Hubballi
July 2020 Writing a Research Proposal, Faculty Development Program and Webinar 
Series organized by SJEC Mangalore
Aug 2020 Technical Writing for Research Proposals, Keynote Speaker at Nadar 
Saraswathi College of Engineering and Technology, Tamil Nadu
Sep 2020 Interactive Online Teaching Using Pedagogical Initiatives and Online Tools, 
Expert Talk at Academy of Maritime Education and Training, Chennai
Sep 2020 Online Education: Tools and Techniques for Online Teaching, Invited Talk 
at IETE Student Branch Chapter Webinar, PSNA College of Engineering & 
Technology, Tamil Nadu
Sep 2020 Effective Communication through Effective Presentation, Invited Talk in 
Faculty Development Program on Leadership, Excellence and Soft Skills for 
Professional Career sponsored by ATAL Academy, AICTE by IIITDM Jabalpur
Oct 2020 No-reference Image Quality Assessment and Applications, Invited Talk at 
International Conference on Optical & Wireless Technologies (OWT 2020), 
MNIT Jaipur
5.	
Departmental Webinars
08 Sep 2020 Imaging Radar, Dr. Tapan Misra, Sr. Advisor to Chairman ISRO
04 Jan 2021 Challenges and Solutions in Massive MIMO Antenna Design, IEEE APS 
Distinguished Lecture by Prof. Buon Kiong Lau, Lund University, Sweden
15 Mar 2021 IoT Building blocks, Trends & Security Challenges, Mr. Alok Mittal, ST 
Microelectronics
25 Mar 2021 5G Wireless Communication Technologies, Prof. Manav Bhatnagar, 
Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Delhi
6.	
Degree Program-related Events
09 May 2020 Facebook Live Session on PG Programs at Department of EE
11 Oct 2020 Webinar on BTech in Electrical Engineering
Departmental Society Events
14 Mar 2021 Soft Skills Workshop by Thinkers and Filler (TnF) (40 participants)
27 Mar 2021 Workshop on Internship Email Writing by Rajlaxmi Chouhan (150+ participants)
84
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

85
Annual Report 2020_21

Department of Humanities & 
Social Sciences
The Department of Humanities and Social Sciences operates 
from spaces that give us an opportunity to act as an interface 
between empirical and experiential knowledge systems. 
Playing a significant role in the academic curriculum of the 
young engineers, we offer both core and elective courses at the 
Bachelors, Masters, and Doctoral levels. The ability to provide 
tools and skills for specific aims notwithstanding, the essence 
of Humanities and Social Sciences involves the sensitizing of 
individuals. Acting as facilitators, thus, we engage in meaningful 
interactions with students and help them witness, study, and 
understand the interplay among technology, society, and 
humanity. With students from a spectrum of backgrounds, the 
Department provides an enriching platform where technical 
education can be complemented with human and social 
understanding. This task assumes even more significance in an 
educational context where the brightest young minds of India 
come together.
Research and Collaboration:
The teaching and research focus of the Department runs along 
the following disciplinary tracks.
1.	
Literary and Cultural Studies
2.	
Philosophy
3.	
Psychology
4.	
Sociology
The department is actively involved in both individual and 
collaborative research projects with other institutions of higher 
learning. With diverse backgrounds in the department, our 
department has received funding from different organizations
Name & Research Areas
Ankita Sharma
Head of Department
Psychology: 
Gerontology, 
Clinical and Positive 
Psychology
Alok Ranjan
Public Health, Universal 
Health Coverage, 
Health Systems, Health 
Economics, Health Equity, 
Elderly Health, Non-
Communicable Diseases, 
Disability & Rehabilitation
Dibyadyuti Roy
Digital Humanities; 
Media, Communication 
and Cultural Studies; 
Postcolonial Masculinities; 
Health Communication; 
Science and Technology 
Studies; Science Fiction 
and Popular Culture
Farhat Naz
Natural Resource 
Management; Water 
Governance; Disaster Risk 
Reduction; Climate Change 
Adaptation; Resilience; 
Poverty Reduction; 
Agroforestry; Gender; Social 
Exclusion; Caste; Governance 
Studies; Intersectionality; 
Diaspora Studies
The Faculty Members associated with the Department during 2020-21 are as follows:
86
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Ruhi Sonal
Decision theory, social 
networks, bounded 
rationality.
K. J. George
Philosophy: Applied 
Ethics, Ethics of 
Technology, Bioethics
Prasenjeet 
Tribhuvan
Anthropology of 
Material Objects, STS 
studies in Sociology, 
Political Ecology, 
Tourism and Youth 
Subcultures
Vidya Sarveswaran
Literary Studies, 
Environmental Humanities, 
Ecocriticism, Blue 
Humanities, Creative 
Nonfiction, Disaster 
Narratives, Documentary 
Film Making and Heritage.
Mayurakshi 
Chaudhuri
Sociology/Sociocultural 
Anthropology: Gender 
Studies; Postcolonial 
South Asia; International 
and Transnational 
Migrations, Qualitative 
Research
Rima Bhattacharya
Asian American literature; 
Diasporic literature; 
Postcolonial literature; 
Indian English poetry; 
World literature
Natasa Thoudam
Disciplines: Literary 
Studies, Gender Studies, 
and Religious Studies. 
Areas: Postcolonial Studies, 
South Asian Studies, 
Migration Studies, and 
Visual Culture focussed on 
India’s Northeast (Manipur)
Suman Dhaka
Broad: Cognitive 
Neuroscience, Cognitive 
Psychology; Decision 
making; Sleep; Cognition; 
Affect Regulation
Parichay Patra
Film Studies: 
Transnational Cinema, 
Film History and 
Historiography, Film 
Aesthetics
V. Hari Narayanan
Philosophy: Cognitive 
Studies, Evolutionary 
Theory, Analytic 
Philosophy and 
Mindfulness
The following academicians are engaged with the Department 
as Adjunct Faculty Members:
Arjun Ghosh (2019-2020)
Associate Professor
Digital Humanities and Performance Studies
IIT Delhi
Mr. Prasenjit Kundu (2019-2020)
CEO, SkillSoincs India Pvt. Ltd.
87
Annual Report 2020_21

1. Multimedia Language Laboratory
2. Psychology Laboratory
The Language Lab located within the Central Library at IIT-
Jodhpur is designed to provide students with an interactive 
learning environment for practical training in English. The lab 
actively engages students in exercises through its collaboration 
with SANAKO, a company that produces specialized software 
to enhance language learning for non-native English speakers. 
ELT instructors in the lab assist students in developing effective 
communication skills based on the LSRW model (Listening, 
Speaking, Reading and Writing) through specific activities 
such as speed reading, in-depth reading, declamation, 
practice for better grammar, listening comprehension, round 
table discussion, speech practice with phonetics, intonation,
voice modulation, pronunciation, and exercises to improve 
writing emails, official letters, reports, and essays. The lab also 
supplements classroom learning by enabling students to 
practice independently and in groups with the use of state-of-
the-art, multimedia equipment. The spatial layout and software 
facilities of the lab are designed to maximize immersive 
language learning. Through the lab, the institute’s students and 
staff from disciplines ranging across the engineering, sciences, 
humanities and social sciences have access to the best digital 
tools and hands-on training towards developing fluency and 
mastery of English.
The Psychology laboratory is part of a research facility in the 
Department of Humanities and Social Sciences in Indian 
Institute of Technology Jodhpur. This is a Positive-Cognitive 
Psychology lab focusing on ‘OPTIMAL HUMAN FUNCTIONING’
. 
We work towards understanding, intervening and promoting 
the wellbeing and excellence of human beings. Currently, work 
in the lab is focusing on Decision-making, Social Cognition, and 
Wisdom. The work revolves around three themes: 1) Cognitive 
Functioning and Psychological Tendencies, 2) Skills, ability 
and well-being management in personal, educational and 
organization context, 3) Performance assessment, management 
and enhancement.
The Psychology Lab provides an understanding of the 
functioning of brain and mind and their interrelationship
with behavior. Some of the concepts of Psychology which 
can provide input for students as engineers are perception 
(biases and illusions involved), decision making (algorithmic 
and heuristic thinking, associated cognitive errors and biases; 
as students are learning (style and strategies), memory 
(mnemonic strategies and distortions); as individuals are 
identifying strength, emotional intelligence, social cognition, 
etc. The laboratory is equipped with tools and software like EEG 
Neurofeedback System, E-prime, Speech recognition software, 
Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, IOWA Gambling Task, Stroop Test, 
SPM, NEOPI-R, Emotional Intelligence Questionnaire, and Social 
Responsiveness Scale etc.
The following laboratories are functioning in the Department of Humanities & Social Sciences.
Multimedia Language Lab class in session
88
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl. No. Title Sponsoring Authority Type Organizers Dates
1. Memories and Mixed-Media: A
Workshop on Curating the Controversial
Media Accounts of the 1970s SPARC, Ministry of
Education, GoI IW Dr. Parichay Patra (IIT
Jodhpur), Dr. Dibyakusum
Ray (IIT Ropar) March 26, 2021
2. Many Afterlives of the Indian Emergency SPARC, Ministry of
Education, GoI IS Dr. Parichay Patra (IIT
Jodhpur), Dr. Dibyakusum
Ray (IIT Ropar) March 27, 2021
Outreach
Department of Humanities & Social Science
1.	
Sharma, A.: Delivered a lecture on ‘Psychology of Collective 
Crisis: Facing it & growing through adversity’ EBSB Webinar-
II on 1 July 2020.
2.	
Sharma, A.: Delivered expert address in International 
Webinar on “Cyber Violence and Gender Equality” on the 
topic, “Digital Vigilantism against Women” on 29 August 
2020.
3.	
P. Patra: Invited talk ‘Death, an Imposter, and the Maiden: 
Pyaasa beyond the Borders’ delivered at the webinar ‘A 
Response to Crises: Literature, Film and Culture of the 21st 
Century’
, organized by Deshbandhu Mahavidyalay, Kazi 
Nazrul University, West Bengal, on June 24, 2021.
4.	
P. Patra: Invited talk ‘Cinema O Smriti: Baki Itihas’ delivered 
at the webinar ‘Meghe Dhaka Cinema’
, organized by
Banwarilal Bhalotia College, Kazi Nazrul University, West 
bengal, on October 15, 2020.
5.	
P. Patra: Invited talk ‘Crisis and the Avant-Garde: Cine-
Politics in the Long 1970s’ presented at ‘Theorising 
Humanities in the Times of Crisis’ webinar, Dept. of HSS, IIT 
Ropar, September 21-23, 2020.
6.	
Farhat Naz: Invited Speaker in the Webinar on ‘Policy 
Implications - COVID-19 Pandemic Disaster: Water, 
Agriculture and Environment’ held on 12 June 2020, 
organized by Centre for Emerging Technologies for 
Sustainable Development, IITJ. As an outreach programme 
for the 11 districts faculty members of the colleges of 
Rajasthan, UNNAT Bharat Abhiyan (A flagship program of 
Ministry of Education, Govt. of India)
Following workshops/seminars have been organized (IW: International Workshop, IS: International Seminar) by Parichay Patra.
89
Annual Report 2020_21

Conference Presentations
Natasha Thoudam
1.	
“Sanamahism and Newar Buddhism: Stories of Two 
Revived Scripts from South Asia”—a paper presented at 
the International Online Conference on Cultural Identity, 
Tradition and Belief System: From Discourse to Practice 
organized by Central Institute of Himalayan Culture Studies 
(An Autonomous Body of Ministry of Culture, Govt. of India, 
New Delhi) held on 24 to 26 Mar 2021
2.	
“From India’s Northeast: Utopia in Dystopia in Mutum 
Devala’s ‘The Wrong Person’”—a paper presented at the 
IACLALS ANNUAL CONFERENCE 2021 titled “Utopias and 
Dystopias in Our Times” organized by IACLALS held on 17 to 
20 Mar 2021
3.	
“‘Maternal rage’ in ‘Complaint’ and the Kangla Protest: 
Stories of Manipur in India’s Northeast”—a paper presented 
online at the Eleventh Annual African, African American, 
and Diaspora Studies (AAAD) Interdisciplinary Conference 
titled “Movement(s), Collectives, and Collectivity” organized 
by the African, African American, and Diaspora Studies 
program at James Madison University held on 17 to 20 Feb 
2021
4.	
“Transnational Identity: Trauma in Hoihnu Hauzel’s Essential 
North East Cookbook”—a paper presented online at the 
Thirtieth Annual British Commonwealth and Postcolonial 
Studies Conference organized by the Journal of Global 
Postcolonial Studies and Departments of Literature 
and Philosophy & Religious Studies, Georgia Southern 
University, held on 15 to 19 Feb 2021
5.	
“An Imagined Graphic Story of the Meitei Graphic 
Narrative”—a paper presented online at the Eleventh 
International Graphic Novel and Comics Conference titled 
“The Resonance of Comics: Social Impact and Possible 
Futures” organized by the Comics Research Hub (CoRH!), 
London School of Communication, University of Arts 
London, UK; the Journal of Graphic Novels and Comics; and 
Studies in Comics held on 1 to 3 Jul 2020.
Vidya Sarveswaran
6.	
Sarveswaran. V. Dying to Live: Solastalgia and Soliphilia as 
Diptcyhs in Charlotte Mcconaghy’s Migrations in Disease 
and Health Humanities Stream at the ASLE (American 
Society for Literature and Environment) Virtual Conference 
titled, Emergence/y on July 26th 2021.
Parichay Patra
7.	
Paper titled ‘When the History Fails: Global South Re-
narrated through the Anecdotal’
, in the seminar ‘Eccentric 
Comparatisms, Worlds Otherwise: South-South Exchanges, 
Alternative Orientalisms, Strategic Occidentalisms’
, 
presented at the American Comparative Literature 
Association (ACLA) 2021 Annual Meeting, April 8-11, 2021.
8.	
Paper titled ‘The Prominence of History and the Lack of 
the Global’ presented at I World Cinema International 
Conference, organized by the Universidad Complutense de 
Madrid, Spain, June 15-16, 2021.
9.	
Invited talk on ‘Solanas and India-Latin America Cinematic 
Links’ in the Panel on Fernando Solanas at the XII Jornadas 
de Historia, Arte y Política Conference, organized by the 
Universidad Nacional del Centro de la Provincia de Buenos 
Aires (UNICEN), Argentina, June 23-25, 2021.
10. Paper titled ‘In Defence of a Not-So-Political Cinema’ 
presented at ‘Many Afterlives of the Indian Emergency’ 
Seminar, sponsored by SPARC, Ministry of Education, Govt. 
of India, hosted by IIT Jodhpur, March 27, 2021.
Farhat Naz
11. Presented a paper titled — ‘Cross-road of Development: 
Climate Change, Water-Induced Disasters and the Urgency 
of Foresighted Policies’ (co-author with Prof. K.J. George) 
at the International Virtual Conference ‘Un/Predictable 
Environments: Politics, Ecology, Agency’ held from 20-21 
May, 2021, organized by Queen’s University Belfast (UK), 
University of British Columbia (Canada), and University of 
Allahabad (India).
12. Invited Plenary Speaker in National E-Seminar on Ecological 
Crises and Climate Change in the Himalayan Region, held 
from 16-17 Dec. 2020, organised by Society for Himalayan 
Environment and People’s Action (SHERPA) in collaboration 
with Department of Sociology, University of Lucknow & 
Ethnographic and Folk Culture Society (EFCS), Lucknow, 
India
90
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Department of Metallurgical & 
Materials Engineering
The Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering at IIT 
Jodhpur has started in January 2017 with a vision of imparting 
high-quality education in the areas of Materials Engineering 
to address continuously evolving demands of new materials in 
the fast-evolving sectors such as, energy, aerospace, defence, 
healthcare, transport, etc. The department is currently offering 
degree programs namely, B.Tech., M.Tech., and Ph.D. in Materials 
Engineering which are designed through a unique combination 
of foundational courses, core courses and electives from the 
following four thematic areas or streams
■
Structural Materials
■
Functional Materials
■
Computational Materials Engineering
■
Process Metallurgy
The Faculty Members in the department have expertise in diverse 
areas of Materials Engineering. They are actively involved in 
conducting translational research in the fundamental and applied 
areas of Materials Engineering. The department frequently 
organizes invited lectures and workshops to share research 
findings, train students on the state of the art experimental and 
computational techniques to promote the development of skill 
sets. The Department welcomes bright people who aspire to 
utilize the power of ambitious research and teaching to shape a 
better future. Following are the details of the faculty members 
associated with the Department:
Name & Research Areas
Bhagwati P. Kashyap
Head of Department Thermo-
mechanical treatment 
and Super-plasticity, Grain 
boundary phenomena, 
Creep and low temperature 
deformation, Microstructure 
- flow property correlations, 
and Light metals and alloy 
development
Abir 
Bhattachayya
Mechanical Behavior 
of Materials, Fatigue of 
Bearing Steels, High-
strain rate Deformation 
of Materials, 
Indentation Response 
of Materials
Appala Naidu 
Gandi
First Principles 
Calculations, Mechanical 
behavior, Thermoelectric 
transport, Lattice 
dynamics, Structural 
characterization, Li-ion 
battery materials
Computational 
Thermodynamics 
for Alloy Design, 
Solidification Studies 
on light alloys, 
Biodegradable 
magnesium alloys, Self-
cleaning coating
91
Annual Report 2020_21

Saurabh Nene
Alloy Design, Additive 
Manufacturing, High 
Entropy Alloys, Friction 
Stir Welding and 
Processing
Srijan Sengupta
Lithium ion Batteries, 
Electrochemistry
Jaiveer Singh
Microstructural/textural 
characterizations, 
Microstructure-mechanical 
property correlation; 
Thermo-mechanical 
processing of materials; Alloy 
design; Mechanical behavior 
of materials
Materials and Mechanics Laboratory
Materials and Mechanics Laboratory is a teaching and research 
facility in the department of Metallurgical and Materials 
Engineering consisting of various facilities for material testing, 
heat treatment, melting, mechanics and metallography etc. 
This lab provides facilities to test samples of different types of 
materials to find out their mechanical properties like modulus of 
elasticity, tensile and compressive strengths, stress-strain curve, 
bending properties, hardness etc. It also supports the R&D 
projects of the institute handled by various Faculty Members, 
Ph.D. thesis work and M.Tech. thesis work of research scholars.
The lab has following testing equipment:
1.	
Universal Testing Machine (Up to 50 kN)
2.	
Micro-hardness Tester
3.	
Metallurgical Microscopes with Software
4.	
Stereo-zoom Microscope
5.	
Density balance
6.	
Muffle furnaces
7.	
Oven
8.	
Induction Melting Furnace
9.	
Hot Mounting Press
10. Precision Diamond Cutting Machine
11. Bend-saw Cutting Machine
12. High Speed Grinder
13. Polishing Machines
14. Spin Coater
15. Jominy End-Quench Test
16. Notch-Broaching Machine
17. Charpy Impact Test for Plastics
18. Beam deflection unit
19. Polarimeter
20. FDM 3D printer
21. Stereolithography – 3D printer
Outreach
The following Outreach activities have been undertaken by the 
Faculty Members at IIT Jodhpur During the FY 2019-20.
1.	
Dr. S.S. Nene started an official collaboration with Prof. M.H. 
Tsai, Associate Professor, Department of Materials Science 
and Engineering, National Chung Hsing University (NCHU) 
Taichung, Taiwan to work in the field of High Entropy Alloy 
(HEA) Design
2.	
Dr. S.S. Nene started an official collaboration with Prof. 
Sheng Guo, Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden to 
work in the area of defect induced plasticity in HEAs
3.	
Dr. Abir Bhattacharyya started official collaboration with 
CSIR-National Metallurgical Laboratory in the area of 
multiaxial fatigue, and residual stress measurement
4.	
Dr. Abir Bhattacharyya started official collaboration with 
Indira Gandhi Centre for Atomic Research (IGCAR), DAE in 
the area of low cycle fatigue of nuclear steels
The following laboratories are functioning in the Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering.
92
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Department of Mathematics
Mathematics, being the basis of many disciplines, is a subject that 
evolves with time and creates new theories to solve real-world 
challenging problems. Our department has been taking a leading 
role in developing new methods to model such situations that 
can be used in diverse areas of computer science, engineering, 
and basic sciences. The department has faculty with research 
interests in the areas of Algebra, Mathematical Physics, Scientific 
Computation, Numerical Analysis, Partial Differential Equations, 
Topological Dynamics, Low Dimensional Chaos, Dynamical 
Systems, Renormalization in Low-dimensional dynamics, Wavelet 
Analysis, Fractional Transform Theory, Image Processing, Financial 
Risk Analysis, Categorical Data Analysis, Reliability Theory, 
Applied Probability.
We offer exciting high-quality programs at postgraduate level 
for students who wish to apply math to the fields of science and 
engineering such as a two-year M.Sc. program in Mathematics, 
a four-year M.Sc-M.Tech program in Mathematics-Data and 
Computational Sciences, a two year M.Tech program in Data 
and Computational Sciences. We also offer an M.Tech-Ph.D. dual 
degree program in Data and Computational Sciences and a Ph.D. 
Program with specialization in different areas of Mathematics 
to those who wish to earn a deeper understanding of pure and 
applied Mathematics.
93
Annual Report 2020_21

Name & Research Areas
Puneet Sharma
Associate Professor
Head of the 
Department
Topological Dynamics, 
Low Dimensional 
Chaos
Gaurav Bhatnagar
Associate Professor
Wavelet Analysis, 
Fractional Transform 
Theory, Multimedia 
Security, Image 
Processing, Information 
Fusion
Sukhendu Ghosh
Assistant Professor
Hydrodynamic 
Instability; Differential 
Equations; Lie 
Groups Applications; 
Dynamical Systems
Dilpreet Kaur
Assistant Professor
Algebra (Group Theory)
Nil Kamal Hazra
Assistant Professor
Reliability Theory, 
Applied Probability
V. V. M. S. 
Chandramouli
Assistant Professor
Dynamical Systems, 
Renormalization in 
Low-Dim Dynamics
Abhishek Sarkar
Assistant Professor
Elliptic partial 
differential equations
Moumita Mandal
Assistant Professor
Numerical Functional 
Analysis
Vandana Sharma
Assistant Professor
Reaction-Diffusion 
Systems, Parabolic 
Partial Differential 
Equations, and 
Mathematical Biology
Kirankumar R. 
Hiremath
Associate Professor
Theoretical, 
mathematical and 
computational aspects 
of wave-matter 
interactions
Tuhina Mukherjee
Assistant Professor
Analysis of Partial 
Differential Equations
Vivek Vijay
Assistant Professor
Financial Risk Analysis, 
Categorical Data 
Analysis, Regression
The following faculty members are associated with the department.
94
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl. No. Title Sponsoring Authority Type Organizers Dates
1 Teacher’s Enrichment Workshop
in Linear Algebra and its
applications National Centre of
Mathematics, DAE, India NW Dilpreet Kaur and
Prof. I. K. Rana November 17-
December 13, 2020
2 Online SageMath Workshop Department of
Mathematics, IITJ NW Dilpreet Kaur Feb 15-18, 2021
Title Organization Type Dates Role Dates
Present Scenario of
Technology and Sciences
(PSTS-2020) Payam Scientific
Publishing International
Conference August 8-9,
2020 Keynote
Speaker November 17-
December 13, 2020
Recent Advances in
Mathematical Sciences
and its Applications Indas Mahavidyalaya National Webinar September 16,
2020 Invited Lecture Feb 15-18, 2021
TEQIP-III, MMM-2020 IIT Indore Faculty development
program November 23-
28, 2020 Invited Lecture
Professor I. K. Rana, Department of Mathematics, IIT Bombay, is associated with the department as Adjunct Faculty Member.
The following Outreach activities have been undertaken by the 
Faculty Members of the Department, at IIT Jodhpur during the 
FY 2020-21.
1.	
Gaurav Bhatnagar organized the International Workshop 
on Big Data in Healthcare (BDH) in conjunction with IEEE 
BigMM 2020, held during September 24-26, 2020 New 
Delhi.
2.	
Gaurav Bhatnagar delivered an expert talk in AICTE 
sponsored QIP-Short Term Course on Data Analytics and Its 
Application to Industries organised by Indian Institute of 
Technology (BHU), Varanasi, 21 December 2020.
3.	
Gaurav Bhatnagar delivered an expert talk in FDP on 
Multimedia and Security organised by National Institute of 
Technology Patna, 19 December 2020.
4.	
Gaurav Bhatnagar delivered a lecture series on the 
Application of Linear Algebra in Teachers Enrichment 
Workshop (TEW) - Linear Algebra and its applications 
organised by Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur, 10-13 
December 2020. Click here for further details on the TEW.
5.	
Gaurav Bhatnagar delivered an invited talk in FDP on 
Mathematics: A Practical Approach in Science and
Technology organised by Deogiri Institute of Engineering 
and Management Studies, June 2020.
6.	
Talk: Hiremath, K. R., Applications of mathematics in 
engineering: Stability analysis, at Jodhpur Institute of 
Engineering and Technology, Jodhpur, June 9, 2020 (online 
mode)
7.	
Expert talk: Hiremath, K. R., Numerical methods 
for differential equations, in Short term course on 
‘Computational methods in engineering science’
, Organized 
by Department of Mathematics at Women Engineering 
College, Ajmer (Rajasthan) along with NIT Jalandhar 
(Punjab), October 26, 2020 (online mode)
8.	
Dr. Puneet Sharma: QIP Lectures on "Mathematical 
Optimization and Applications", Organized by Indian 
Institute of Technology Indore, March 2021.
Awards and Recognitions
1.	
Ms. Sushmita Chandel, Ph.D. Student, has been selected for 
ACM India Anveshan Setu Fellowship 2021.
2.	
Mr. Parkala Vishnu Bayari, Ph.D. Student, has been selected 
for ACM India Anveshan Setu Fellowship 2021.
Outreach
Conference presentations
1) Dr. Dilpreet Kaur
2) Dr. Sukhendu Ghosh
95
Annual Report 2020_21

Department of 
Mechanical Engineering
The Department of Mechanical Engineering at IIT Jodhpur is 
devoted to impart quality engineering education and pursue 
excellence in research. It is dedicated to preparing students 
to face the emerging challenges of forthcoming decades. The 
vision of the Department is to attain synchronous evolution of 
pedagogical pursuit and research initiatives to nurture young 
minds finding technological solutions for emerging engineering 
challenges. The department offers B. Tech. M. Tech. and Ph.D. 
in Mechanical Engineering within three broader domains of 
Thermofluids, Design and Smart Manufacturing. Looking at 
the diaspora of current and futuristic technology demand, the 
following four specializations are envisioned to be nurtured 
and expanded by the Department, namely (i) Micro-Nano 
Engineering (ii) Energy Engineering, (iii) Design Engineering, 
and (iv) Smart Manufacturing. The students also have the 
opportunity to work with interdisciplinary specializations in 
emerging areas like Artificial Intelligence (AI), Internet of things 
(IoT), Smart Healthcare, and Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS). The 
flexible curriculum structure of the Department also allows and 
encourages undergraduate students to pursue a management or 
entrepreneurial career.
At IIT Jodhpur, mechanical engineers are educated in a way not 
only to adapt but to define direct change. This is reflected in 
the portfolio of the current activities of the department. Faculty 
members are involved in a wide range of projects in the areas 
of energy conversion and power systems, heat transfer and 
fluid mechanics, mechanics of solid, mechanical vibrations, 
robotics, autonomous unmanned vehicles, design optimization, 
acoustics and noise control, control systems, rotor dynamics, 
nano-materials, biomechanics, bio-inspired thermofluids, 
fluid-structure interaction, conventional/nonconventional 
manufacturing, and multi-scale manufacturing to name a few.
Additionally, efforts are being made to introduce advanced 
concepts like smart manufacturing, Industry 4.O, Smart 
scientific computing techniques, high-performance computing, 
applications of artificial intelligence, machine learning algorithms, 
sensors, and IoT as a part of solving interdisciplinary problems 
requiring mechanical engineering knowhow. Keeping a balance 
between theory and hands-on experience, the department 
intends to provide its students with a solid foundation in core as 
well as emerging areas of mechanical engineering by inspiring 
critical thinking and nurturing problem-solving skills. Technology 
Tracks include the following.
1. Smart Manufacturing and Industry 4.0
2. Multi-scale Manufacturing
3. Processing of Novel Materials
4. Fluid Thermal System Design
5. Multiphase Flows
6. Microfluidics
7. Energy and Sustainability
8. Solid Mechanics and Design
9. Vibration and Acoustics
10. Robotics and Mobility Systems
11. Aerodynamics
12. MEMS
96
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Name & Research Areas
Prodyut R. 
Chakraborty
Head of Department
Heat and mass transfer, 
Latent heat-based storage 
device for high temperature 
applications, Alloy 
solidification process, Active 
and passive solar cooling 
systems, Electronic cooling
Barun Pratiher
Dynamics of Machines 
and Structures, Flexible 
Robots, MEMS, Rotor 
Dynamics, Nonlinear 
Oscillations
Amrita Puri
Active noise control; 
Active vibration control; 
Experimental modal 
analysis; Acoustics
Hardik B. 
Kothadia
Multiphase Flow, 
Boiling and 
Condensation, 
Heat Transfer, Fluid 
Mechanics, Gasification
Rahul Chibber
Welding and joining, 
Manufacturing and 
materials processing, 
Mechanical behaviour 
of materials
Sudipto 
Mukhopadhyay
Energy Technology, 
Combustion 
Technology, 
Computational Fluid 
Dynamics, Turbulent 
flows, Sprays
Anand Krishnan 
Plappally
Water, Water 
Management and 
Characterization of 
Engineered Materials
B. Ravindra
Design, Dynamics, 
Vibration and Control
Atul Kumar Sharma
Solid Mechanics; 
Continuum Mechanics; 
Computational Solid 
Mechanics; Mechanics of 
Soft Active Materials; Wave 
Propagation in Soft Active 
Composite Materials; 
Topology Optimization
Kaushalkumar A. 
Desai
Modeling of 
Manufacturing 
Processes, CAD/CAM, 
CNC Machining, Error 
compensation
Suril V. Shah
Robotics, Multibody 
Dynamics and Control
Nipun Arora
Flapping wing aerodynamics; 
Fluid-structure interaction; 
CFD with Lattice Boltzmann 
method; Turbulence 
and moving boundary 
simulations; High 
performance computing; 
Electrorheological Fluids
The following Faculty Members are associated with the department.
97
Annual Report 2020_21

Name & Research Areas
Chandan Pandey
Welding, Heat treatment, 
Nuclear grade material, 
Mechanical behavior 
of materials, Material 
processing
Ankur Gupta
Microsystems 
Fabrication
Shobhana Singh
Thermal energy systems: Thermal 
energy storage, Solar dryers, Heat 
pumps, Heat exchangers; Heat and 
mass transfer analysis; Dynamic 
and multiphysics modeling; 
Computational fluid dynamic 
modeling; System and design 
optimization; Renewable energy 
integration; Electrochemical 
carbon capture
Ashish Pathak
Fluid-Structure 
Interaction; Ocean 
Energy; Phase-
Change Problems; 
Multiphase flows; 
High Performance 
Computing
Arun Kumar, R.
Experimental 
Aerodynamics - 
Confined Jets, Shock 
Wave Reflection and 
Transitions, Ejector 
Flows
Jayant Kumar 
Mohanta
Planar Parallel manipulators; 
Lower limb rehabilitation 
robots; Medical robotics; 
Robot manipulator 
kinematic and dynamic 
control, Mechanism design 
and Analysis
Shrutidhara 
Sarma
Thin film 
nanocomposite 
temperature sensors, 
nanocomposite 
materials, flexible 
sensors
Prof. C. S. Upadhyay
Department of Aerospace 
Engineering, IIT Kanpur is 
spending his sabbatical at the 
Department of Mechanical 
Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
Solid Mechanics, Adaptive 
Finite Element Methods, 
Structural Optimization
The following Faculty Members joined the department during this year.
98
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

The following laboratories are functioning in the Department of mechanical Engineering.
1. Advanced Manufacturing
The advanced manufacturing laboratory houses CNC Machine 
Tools, 3-D Printers and manufacturing simulation software 
to support academic and research activities in the domain of 
CNC Machine Tools, CAD/CAM, New product development and 
Smart Manufacturing. The laboratory supports the academic 
activities of the department in the above-mentioned areas. The 
research groups associated with the laboratory have developed 
physics-based process models for machining operations using 
computational tools and validated the same using experimental 
facilities available in-house. The laboratory also facilitates the 
development of prototypes for various applications ranging 
from mechanical, automotive, aerospace and healthcare 
industries using 3-D printing technology. Considering recent 
impetus to Industry 4.0, the laboratory is expanding to develop 
indigenous technological solutions to implement smart 
manufacturing for various processes.
The Advanced Manufacturing Laboratory is equipped with the 
following facilities:
1. CNC Machine Tools and Smart Manufacturing
2. 3-axis CNC Vertical Machining Center
3. On-Machine Probing System
4. Table mounted Dynamometer
5. 3-D Printer
6. Polyjet 3-D Printer
7. Fused Deposition Modeling 3-D Printer (2 Nos.)
8. Computer-Aided Designing and Analysis
9. ANSYS
10.	
DEFORM - 3D
11.	
SolidWorks
12.	
Creo
13.	
AutoCAST
99
Annual Report 2020_21

2. Central Workshop
The central workshop is the central facility of the Institute, 
consisting of various workshops such as Welding shop, 
Carpentry shop, Fitting shop, Sheet metal shop, Foundry 
and Heat treatment shop and Machine shop. Undergraduate 
Students get hands-on experience in the above sections by 
doing the job work and carrying out projects as part of their 
coursework and utilizing the facilities for fabrication purposes 
of their academic projects. It also supports the R&D projects 
of the institute handled by various faculty members and PhD 
and M.Tech. thesis work of research scholars by providing 
them assistance in the fabrication of their research set-ups. The 
following machines and equipment are available in the Central 
Workshop:
1.	
Welding Fume Extraction Down Draft Table,
2.	
Multi-process Welding Equipment,
3.	
Portable Single Phase MIG/MAG,
4.	
AC/DC Welding Equipment,
5.	
MIG/MAG Welding Equipment,
6.	
Treadle-operated Shearing Machine,
7.	
Hand-operated Folding Machine,
8.	
Kaizen Muffle Furnace,
9.	
Hand-operated Jeeny or Burying Machine,
10.	
Motorized Circle Cutting Machine,
11.	
Hand-operated Circle Cutting Machine,
12.	
Hydraulic Shearing Machine,
13.	
Portable Heating Plant,
14.	
Portable Hardening plant,
15.	
Forging Heating Plant,
16.	
Aluminum Melting Plant,
17.	
Fitting Table,
18.	
Mould Making Facility, and
19.	
Portable Tool Grinder.
100
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

3. Industrial Engineering Laboratory
4. Metrology Laboratory
5. Dynamics of Machine Laboratory
The industrial engineering lab in the department of mechanical 
engineering consists of several experimental set ups covering 
different domains of the subject. Experiments in the curriculum 
are designed for better understanding of Value engineering and 
value analysis. Students are given real-time exposure of quality 
control with experimental data used to prepare control charts, 
such as X, R, σ, C, P and nP. The laboratory has the following 
experiment kits to perform several laboratory activities:
■
Finger dexterity test
■
Tweezer dexterity test
■
Grooved keyhole pegboard
■
Purdue pegboard
The Metrology Laboratory facilitates the academic and 
research activities associated with the understanding of 
various measuring and inspection activities for manufactured 
components. The laboratory encompasses a set of classical 
measuring and gauging instruments, computer-controlled 
measuring machines and associated software to determine 
appropriate dimensional and geometric tolerances for the 
components. The laboratory facilitates the conduct of well-
designed experiments to familiarize students with working of 
measuring tools, equipment and quality control procedures.
The Metrology Laboratory is equipped with the following 
facilities:
■
Tool Maker Microscope
■
Profile Projector
■
Autocollimator
■
Optical Interferometer
■
CNC Form and Roughness Measuring Machine
■
Coordinate Measuring Machine
■
MCOSMOS
Kinematics and Dynamics Laboratory has been designed to 
primarily focus on mechanism and dynamic analysis of the 
mechanical system in helping the students to understand the 
behaviour of the various mechanisms and forces acting on 
them. This lab is well equipped with various mechanisms and
machines such as Motorised Gyroscope Apparatus, Static and 
Dynamic, Balancing Apparatus, Universal Governor Apparatus, 
Coriolis Component of Acceleration Apparatus, Epicyclic Gear 
Train Apparatus, Cam Analysis Machine Apparatus, Universal 
Vibration Apparatus, Stroboscope, and Tachometer.
The experiments and activities of the Industrial engineering lab are closely aligned with the theoretical teaching, so as to give 
necessary hands-on exposure to students.
101
Annual Report 2020_21

6. Helicopter Laboratory
Helicopter Laboratory mainly focuses on the development of 
hover capable aerial vehicles with autonomous capabilities. At 
present, hover capable configurations of vehicles available are 
quadrotors and conventional mini-helicopters. The major area 
of research focus is on the development of indigenous autopilot 
systems consisting of microcontrollers, sensors, actuators and 
wireless communication, data processing, control, navigation 
algorithms. In addition, several test rigs have been developed 
for the characterization of brushless motors, and for testing the 
control algorithm for stabilization of quadrotors. Development 
of mathematical formulation for various maneuvers in auto 
mode, and implementation and flight testing of the vehicle 
in an outdoor environment are other key areas of research 
undertaken in this laboratory. The software architecture and 
source code for all tasks are fully developed in this lab. Further, 
the lab also aims at the design and development of mechanical 
hardware of multi-rotors and helicopters.
At present the equipment available in the Helicopter Lab of the 
institute are:
■
Quadrotor Platforms
■
Conventional Mini-helicopters
■
Control Rigs for Multirotors
■
Setup for Motor Characteristic Estimation
■
Oscilloscope
■
Variable Voltage and Current DC Supply Unit
■
Soldiering Station
■
NI PXI System
■
Atmel and Arm microcontroller development boards
■
Lord MicroStrain IMU
■
MEMS sensors such as accelerometer, gyroscope, 
magnetometer, barometer
■
GPS receivers and sonar
102
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

7. Mechatronics laboratory
Mechatronics and IoT lab at IIT Jodhpur is established to 
impart state of the Art interfacing of mechanical systems with 
sensors, actuators and microcontrollers. The projects include 
microcontroller and internet of things (IoT) based design of 
consumer appliances, healthcare and transportation and 
automotive domain.
The UG laboratory equipment and projects include:
■
Dissection and assembly of consumer appliances
■
Creating the Internet of things-based applications using 
microcontrollers
■
Prototype solar tracker using microcontrollers
■
Programmable logic controller (PLC) and Pneumatic circuits
■
Programmable logic controller for material handling system 
(conveyor belt)
■
Quanser CUBE servo control design with QUARC real-time 
interface
■
Hardware in the loop (HIL) simulations and rapid 
prototyping with dSPACE
■
Applications of computer vision and deep learning in 
mechatronics
■
Sensors and Internet of things
■
Software packages such as MATLAB, OpenCV, ADAMS, 
ANSYS, SOLIDWORKS, Pro-E
103
Annual Report 2020_21

8. Robotics Laboratory
9. Vibration Laboratory
■
The Robotics Laboratory is a part of the Mechanical 
Engineering Department at Indian Institute of Technology 
at Jodhpur.
■
Robotics laboratory is integral part of M.Tech. in Advanced 
Manufacturing and Design offered by the department 
where students get exposed to kinematic, dynamics, 
motion planning, programming, and control of robots.
■
The laboratory focuses on research problems and 
innovative projects that extend the state of the art in 
robotics. The laboratory’s research work is in the areas of 
Space Robots, Motion Planning, Vision based Control, Robot 
Mechanism Design and Computational Dynamics. The 
laboratory is equipped with diverse robot platforms and 
advanced sensors.
Vibration and Control laboratory has been established with 
the objective of measuring the vibration characteristics and 
subsequent control for vibrating the machine or structures. 
This lab offers various experimental techniques and principles
to study vibration analysis and control strategies. This lab is 
well equipped with various testing, measuring, and monitoring 
equipment for conducting the experiments and demonstrations 
for teaching and research purposes.
104
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

10. Fluid Mechanics and Turbomachinery Laboratory
Fluid mechanics lab aims to provide hands-on exposure 
to students on various experimental flow measurement 
techniques. Students are introduced with the experimental 
flow prediction of a wide range of practical problems such as 
frictional flow through pipes, prediction of various aerodynamic 
coefficients over subsonic airfoils, wake flows, jet flows, 
turbulent flows in pipe etc. The laboratory also aims to provide a 
practical feel on the different fluid dynamic concepts involved in 
the measurement of various flow field parameters like velocity, 
pressure, flow rate etc.
The various facilities available at the institute Fluid Mechanics 
lab are as follows:
■
Subsonic Wind Tunnel
■
Pipe Friction Apparatus
■
Reynolds Apparatus
■
PIV simulator
■
Various Flow Measurement devices
The turbomachines lab introduces students with various 
hydraulic turbomachines and their operational characteristics. 
The lab consists of test rigs for various hydraulic turbines 
and centrifugal pumps. The miniature turbomachine units 
are mounted on a test bench with a closed water circuit. A 
transparent cover provides a direct view of the turbomachine 
in operation and thus clearly illustrates the interaction of guide 
apparatus, water flow and runner. The test rigs are equipped 
with a volume flow meter, pressure sensors at the inlet and 
outlet pipes, tachometer and brake drum dynamometer 
which can be used to measure the input power, runner speed 
and torque and are shown using electronic display boards. 
Characteristics curves and performance curves for various 
hydraulic machines at various speeds can thus be evaluated. The 
various facilities available at the institute Turbomachines lab are 
as follows:
■
Pelton Turbine (Impulse hydraulic turbine)
■
Francis Turbine (Reaction hydraulic turbine)
■
Centrifugal Pump
105
Annual Report 2020_21

11. Heat Transfer Laboratory
The objectives of Heat Transfer Lab is to provide practical 
knowledge with regard to the determination of the rate of heat 
exchange in various modes of heat transfer and to provide 
practical exposure to various temperature measurement 
instruments and its working principle. In the Heat Transfer Lab, 
students can expect to measure the temperature of objects
using different temperature measurement instruments, measure 
the heat transfer properties of various metals, understand basic 
laws of radiation heat transfer, and compare the performance 
of different convection processes. Students can expect to gain 
knowledge of heat transfer in solar thermal applications.
106
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

12. Energy Conversion Laboratory
Energy Conversion Lab aimed to improve the thermal 
performance of energy transfer processes. Knowledge 
of thermal performance of equipment helps to enhance 
efficiency from power-producing devices like thermal power 
plants, nuclear power plants, automobile engines as well as 
refrigeration devices. Knowledge of heat transfer is the key to 
this goal.
In recent times, research in this field has become more 
toward industrial applications and includes fields that are 
at the borderline of Physics. As manufacturing has become 
miniaturized, the study of heat transfer at the micro and 
nanoscale has become extremely important. The miniaturization
of components provides an enormous increment in the heat 
dissipation capacity of devices in engineering applications. The 
quest for enhanced heat removal leads researchers to two-
phase flow and specialized surface modifications to enhance the 
heat transfer without leading to a pressure penalty. The intimate 
relation of the field with energy production has led to significant 
research in solar while also exploring the use of waste heat for 
industrial process implementation.
In the Energy Conversion Lab, students can expect to work on 
the industrial and most contemporary problems in each of these 
fields.
107
Annual Report 2020_21

13. Automotive Propulsion
The increasing demand for vehicles worldwide is driving 
research for efficient and low emission automotive propulsion 
solutions. This lab aims to train today’s engineers to basic and 
emerging technologies in automobiles. The lab is equipped 
with:
■
Fuel quality measurement: Flashpoint apparatus, Bomb 
calorimeter,
■
IC Engine rigs: Multicylinder petrol engine, Multicylinder 
diesel engine
■
Emission analyzer: AVL CDS 450
■
In-cylinder diagnostics: Kistler box
■
Cut section models: 2-S Engine, 4-S engine
■
Combustion physics: Cantera, ANSYS FORTE, FLUENT
■
IC Engine simulation: Lotus Engine Simulation
■
EV simulation: AmeSIM
108
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

14. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Laboratory
In the refrigeration and air conditioning lab, students 
assess various kinds of refrigeration systems such as vapour 
compression, vapour absorption, vortex tube, etc and evaluate 
their performance. They study the characteristics of heating 
and ventilation and analyze psychrometric processes. The cut 
section models of hermetically sealed rotary and reciprocating 
compressors are available to provide a thorough knowledge 
of various components, their purpose and maintenance. 
The disassembled window air-conditioner and a domestic 
refrigerator are also present to impart a practical understanding 
of their working principles. The lab is equipped with the 
following facilities:
1. Vapour compression test rig
2. Vapour absorption test rig
3. Vortex tube cooling apparatus
4. Ventilation and air distribution setup
5. Cut sections of rotary and reciprocating compressors
6. Disassembled window air conditioner and domestic 
refrigerator
7. Psychrometer
8. Steam jet injection test rig
109
Annual Report 2020_21

15. Gas Dynamics Laboratory
The Gas Dynamics Laboratory introduces students with various 
high-speed flow scenarios and experimental measurement 
techniques. This lab intends to provide students with the 
fundamental knowledge of supersonic flows through various 
devices like, nozzles, diffusers, compression and expansion 
corners etc. The students are also exposed to the fundamentals 
of aerodynamic shock waves and its reflection characteristics. 
The fluid dynamics at high-speed flows are particularly 
important in the aerospace propulsion and defense sector 
and this lab aims to give a flavor of various high speed 
flow applications in these sectors. The various teaching lab 
experiments conducted at this lab are as follows:
1.	
Nozzle flow experiments using a blow-down open jet 
tunnel.
2.	
Mowing shock wave experiment using Shock Tube
3.	
Shock Wave reflection studies using a supersonic wind 
tunnel.
4.	
Underexpanded and Overexpanded jets in supersonic 
nozzles
5.	
Schlieren and Shadowgraph Visualization for High-Speed 
Flows
6.	
Computational Gas Dynamics
110
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

1.	
Shobhana Singh did the following:
(i)	
Reviewer-Technical Program Committee member 
for-CICN 2020 (12th International Conference on 
Computational Intelligence and Communication 
Networks)
a)	
RES20 (The International Conference on 
Renewable Energy and Sustainability)
b)	
CESA20 (International Conference on Clean 
Energy, Systems and Smart Applications)
(ii) Member of Advisory Committee, International 
Symposium on Fluids and Thermal Engineering (FLUTE 
- 2021).
(iii) Delivered an invited Lecture in Faculty Development 
Program (FDP) at MIT Ujjain, India, 04-08 August 2020.
2.	
Hardik Kothadia, delivered the following invited talks:
(i)	
Keynote Speaker, 4th International Conference 
on Advanced Research in Mechanical, Materials 
and Manufacturing Engineering, REVA University, 
Bangalore, 11 July 2020
(ii) Expert Lecture, FDP on Advancement in Thermal 
Systems and Their Designs, Mahakal Institute of 
Technology, RGPV, Bhopal, 08 August 2020.
3. Atul Kumar Sharma delivered an invited talk on “Wave 
propagation in soft electro-active polymer composites” as 
a part of the AICTE–Training and Learning (ATAL) Academy 
Sponsored 5 Days Training Programme on Mechanics of 
Composite Materials and Structures, M.B.M. Engineering 
College, Jodhpur, during September 07-11, 2020.
4. Atul Kumar Sharma delivered an invited talk on “Modelling 
of Soft Active Smart Materials” as a part of the AICTE-AQIS 
sponsored Online Six Days Short Term Training Programme 
(STTP) on Eclectic Research Trends in Manufacturing (Part-
3), Poornima College of Engineering, Jaipur, during March 
15-20, 2021.
5.	
A. Plappally, Truncated Unglazed Percolative Clay Ceramic 
Ware as a Modified Pitcher Irrigation System RuTAG IITD 
News, Vol. 8, No. 2, pg 2 July 2020
6. A. Plappally, Mound Based Sub-Surface Irrigation, Rajasthan 
RuTAG IITD News, Vol. 9, No. 1, pg. 3, January 2021
7. R K Satankar, A K Nighojkar, S Gupta, A. Plappally, 
Manufacturing and Sintering of G filter: A Indigenous Clay 
Ceramic Water Filter- Patent Application: 202111005827
8. A. Plappally, Talk titled, Water Technology- G Filters, at 
International Seminar on Safeguarding Intangible Cultural 
Heritage Webinar by UNESCO, Lok Samvad Sansthan and 
Anant University, on 9th and 10th Aug 2020
9. A. Plappally, Taught Water Quality and Energy use, at Jal 
Pathshala, at the Indian International Science Fest, 2020, 
Dec 02-05 2020.
10. A. Plappally is presently incharge of CETSD and UBA-RCI 
coordinator at IIT Jodhpur from 2019- till date.
11. Research collaboration with Department of Chemicals 
and Materials Engineering, University of Alberta, through 
SERB-Overseas Visiting Doctoral Fellowship granted to 
Ph.D. scholar from Rahul Chhibber’s research group. (Result 
declared: August 2020, Collaborative work start: February 
2021)
12. Rahul Chhibber participated as speaker in invited lecture 
organized by Indian Institute of Welding- Jamshedpur 
branch on 31st December 2020.
14. Rahul Chhibber participated as Speaker in FDP organized 
Department of Mechanical Engineering, DAVIET, Jalandhar, 
Punjab, sponsored by AICTE-ISTE on 26th December 2020.
15. C. Venkatesan delivered an invited talk on “Helicopter 
dynamics and handling qualities” as a part of the Test Pilot 
training program 5-days lecture series at the Air Force Test 
Pilot School, ASTE, during December 2020.
16. Prodyut Ranjan Chakraborty delivered an invited talk on 
“Solar Thermal energy storage” as a part of the one week 
Faculty Development Program at Swami Keshvanand 
Institute of Technology, Management & Gramothan, Jaipur 
(SKIT) during August 24 -28, 2020.
17. Nipun Arora delivered an invited lecture on “AI based tools 
in teaching and scientific research” as a part of the Faculty 
development program organized in Kirori Mal College, 
Delhi University in October, 2020.
Outreach
111
Annual Report 2020_21

Department of Physics
Name & Research Areas
Sampat Raj 
Vadera
Head of Department
Solid State Physics, 
Materials Science, 
Nanoscience and 
Nanotechnology, 
Stealth Materials, 
Stealth Technology
Satyajit Sahu
Information Processing 
in Biological Systems
Ambesh Dixit
Semiconductors, 
multifunctional 
ferroics & materials 
for energy-fabrication 
& characterization, 
Photovoltaic materials & 
devices ab initio DFT study 
and device simulations
Subhashish 
Banerjee
Open Quantum 
Systems; Quantum 
Information; Non-
Equilibrium Statistical 
Mechanics; Quantum 
Optics
The following faculty members are associated with the department.
A visible research in fundamental Physics along with its 
applications is the major theme of the Physics department at 
IIT Jodhpur. The faculty members carry out research in the field 
of Astrophysics, Condensed Matter Physics & Material Science, 
Particle Physics, Experimental and Theoretical Quantum Optics,
Quantum Information and Foundations of Quantum Mechanics. 
The research facilities available in the department include SQUID 
magnetometer, Physics Property Measurement Systems (PPMS), 
Raman Spectrometer and Scanning Tunnelling Microscope (STM).
112
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Ashutosh Kumar 
Alok 
Particle Physics and 
Cosmology
Monika Sinha
Astrophysics, 
Astroparticle physics
Santosh 
Mogurampelly
Multiscale Modeling of 
Soft Matter Physics and 
Materials Science
Somnath Ghosh
Light in disordered 
and complex systems, 
Mid-IR photonics and 
unconventional devices
Amitava Mitra
Magnetism & Application 
of Magnetic Materials, 
Electromagnetic Techniques 
for Non-destructive 
Evaluation of Damage for 
Engineering Components, 
Research Planning & Project 
Management
Prabhat Kumar 
Jaiswal
Non-equilibrium 
Statistical Physics and 
Computational Physics
Durgamadhab 
Mishra
Magnetic thin films 
and nanoparticles, 
Permanent Magnets, 
Synchrotron and 
Neutron Scattering and 
X-ray imaging
Reetanjali 
Moharana
Astroparticle Physics, 
High energy Cosmic 
rays, Gamma rays and 
Neutrinos
Shahab Ahmad
Condensed Matter 
Physics, Nanomaterials, 
Optoelectronics, Energy 
Storage Devices, Solar 
Cells, Photo-detectors, 
Light Emitting Diodes
V. Narayanan
Optics and Solar Field Design, 
Plasmonics, Laser Produced 
Plasmas (LPP), Pulsed Laser 
Deposition (PLD), Plasma 
Diagnostics (Interferometry & 
Optical Emission Spectroscopy 
(OES)), Laser Matter 
Interaction and Laser Cluster 
Interaction
B.M. Krishna 
Mariserla
Light-Matter 
interactions, Ultrafast 
Spectroscopy, Terahertz 
Spectroscopy, and 
Higher harmonic 
generation
Ram Prakash
Plasma Science & 
Technology: Low 
temperature plasma 
applications
The following DST Inspire Faculty Members joined the Department during 2020-2021.
1.	
Dr. Lakshya Daukia
2.	
Dr. Vijay Kumar Singh
113
Annual Report 2020_21

The following laboratories are functional in the Department of 
Physics.
Experiential learning is an integral part of the various programs 
offered by the physics department at IIT Jodhpur. The students 
grasp the theoretical concepts much better and quickly through 
hands-on experience. Therefore, the department of Physics has 
established following laboratories for UG and PG students to 
enhance their comprehension of concepts taught in lectures as 
well as impart skills for their future professional growth.
In order to facilitate globally competitive cutting edge research 
and breakthrough technologies it is imperative to develop an
atmosphere wherein the students and faculty members have 
free access to research facilities not only within the department 
but across all the departments of the institute. Therefore, the 
department has set up four focussed research groups which 
carry out fundamental and applied research in the areas of (i) 
Quantum Physics, (ii) High Energy and Astrophysics, (iii) Optics 
and Photonics and (iv) Condensed Matter and Plasma Physics. 
These research groups are supported by the Thematic Research 
Laboratories catering to the needs of the Faculty members, 
PhD students and Research staff. The details of Laboratories 
(Teaching / Research lab, Thematic Research lab) and Research 
Groups of the Department are given below.
A. Teaching Labs
1. Basic Physics Lab
Typical experiments in the lab covers Electromagnetism (Hall effect, B-H curve tracing), Optics (Newton’s Rings, Refractive index of 
prism, Diffraction of light, Faraday effect), Mechanics (Stationary waves in strings, Flywheels) and Electrodynamics (e/m-ratio with 
Helmholtz’s coil, Basic current balance).
Basic Physics Lab
114
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

2. Electronics Lab
It is equipped with instruments that can be used to perform experiments related to transistors, Op-AMP, Digital circuits, etc. The 
following new equipment have been acquired in the Electronics Laboratory:
1. New source meter, oscilloscopes, function generators were added.
2. To perform Arduino based experiments new microcontrollers were added.
3. Condensed Matter Physics Lab
The lab is equipped with a four-probe set up for temperature dependent conductivity measurement, band gap measurement of 
semiconductors, Hall apparatus etc. to measure the functional properties viz. electronic, magnetic, optical and thermal properties of 
materials. The following new experiments have been added to Condensed Matter Physics Laboratory:
1. Vibrational spectrometer for Raman analysis
2. Temperature dependent resistivity and Hall measurements
Electronics Lab
Four-probe set up
Hysteresis loop tracer
115
Annual Report 2020_21

4. Atomic and Nuclear Physics Lab
This lab has various experiments such as Compton Scattering, Frank-Hertz Experiment, Photoelectric effect, Alpha particle 
spectrometer, Radiation counters etc. covering fundamental aspects of nuclear and atomic physics.
5. Optics and Laser Lab
The following new experiments have been installed in Atomic 
and Nuclear Physics laboratory
1.	
Gamma Ray Spectrometer (Energy resolved)
2.	
Alpha spectrometer (Energy resolved)
3.	
Radiation Counter for Alpha and Beta Particle
4.	
Radiation Counter for Gamma and Beta Particle
5.	
Millikan Oil-drop experiment
The experiments in the lab provide the 
conceptual understanding of geometrical 
& wave optics, and Lasers. It has several 
Interferometers (Michelson. Fabry Perot, 
Mach Zehnder), optical fibers, laser diodes, 
Goniometers, prisms, polarizers to cater to 
the experiments. New experiments such as 
refractor meter, characteristic study of diode 
laser and Polarization studies by wave plates 
are introduced in this academic year of 20-21.
6. Computational Physics Lab
The laboratory is equipped with several state-of-the-art 
workstations with multiple operating system environments. A 
number of computational and simulation programs including 
MATLAB® and Mathematica® are pre-installed. The standard 
flow of activities in this laboratory is to formulate/model the
real-world and multi-Physics phenomena; develop algorithms; 
write code; execute the job on a computer; visualize and analyse 
obtained data; and finally, correlate/verify the results with the 
observed phenomena.
Millikan Oil drop
Photoelectric effect apparatus
116
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

A. Research Laboratories
1. Basic Physics Lab
2. Multiscale Characterization Lab
The lab is equipped with various thin film fabrication 
instruments including in-house developed low-cost solution 
processing techniques such as spin coater, dip coater, and 
hydrothermal cells together with more advanced and 
sophisticated DC and RF magnetron sputtering system for single 
and multilayer thin film depositions, and thermal chemical
vapor deposition system to fabricate thin-film nanostructures 
in different geometries. The synthesis laboratory provides the 
opportunity to develop materials ranging from bulk thin films 
to 2D and 1D nanostructured thin-film structures on various 
substrates for different applications such as energy, water, 
health, and environment.
This lab houses several state-of-the art characterization 
facilities viz. Scanning Tunneling Microscope, Physical Property 
Measurement System, SQUID Magnetometer, Multiferroic 
measurement systems, etc. The department also has access to a
wide range of other analytical equipment available at the Centre 
for Advanced Scientific Equipment (CASE) being managed at the 
institute level.
(1) Low temperature Scanning Tunnelling Microscope
Characterization of electronic properties of fabricated devices
(2) Electrical Transport Measurement system
117
Annual Report 2020_21

3. Functional Materials Processing Lab
4. Functional Materials Design Lab
The lab is equipped with several advanced equipment such 
as High Energy Ball Milling, Pressure Machine, Plasma Etcher, 
a wide range of Furnaces, Glove Box, etc. The facilities will be
further augmented with a number of state-of-the-art high-end 
process equipment for device fabrication.
This lab is developing into a state-of-the-art facility with 
dedicated instrumentation for the synthesis of new functional 
materials for high efficiency photovoltaic devices and 
batteries, single-molecule electronics devices. Moreover, novel
ferromagnetic and ferroelectric materials, high-performance 
thermoelectric materials, and stealth materials for enhanced 
military capability are also being synthesized in this lab.
Furnaces and Material Processing Units
Synthesis and Functionalization of Quantum Dots
118
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

5. Nonlinear Photonics and Laser Lab
6. Quantum Optics and Quantum Information Lab
7. Computational Physics Lab
Nonlinear optical effects in the materials due to high-intensity 
laser pulses drive the research towards a deep understanding 
of light-matter interactions and development of novel photonic 
and nano electronics devices. In this lab fast dynamics using 
high intense and ultrafast lasers with broad spectral range,
including UV-VIS, IR and THz will be carried out. Moreover, 
control and propagation of electromagnetic wave in disordered 
optical media, photonic devices and optical fibers are explored 
by computational and experimental techniques.
Along with various aspects of Quantum Physics, efficient 
generation of entangled photons using short-pulsed laser and 
its characterization will be realized in this lab. Development 
of Single Photon Source and its characterization shall be
performed. Optically generation of non-classical states shall be 
applied for carrying out challenging modern-day experiments in 
Quantum Physics.
The Computational Physics laboratory is being developed 
with several state-of-the-art HPC workstations. A number 
of computational and simulation programs including 
LAMMPS, GROMACS, QUANTUM-ESPRESSO, VMD, MATLAB®, 
and Mathematica® will be made available to the users of 
Computational Physic Laboratory. The recommended workflow 
of research activities in this laboratory includes: ideate the
research problem, develop model/algorithm, write a code/
script, execute the job on a workstation, analyse and visualize 
computer generated data; and finally, test/produce/analyse the 
computational results. New High End Workstations have been 
acquired in the Computational Physics Laboratory.
Three-port Glove Box system for the fabrication of Li-ion batteries
An inert atmosphere filled Glove box system is procured from DST funded research grant to facilitate the fabrication of Li-ion batteries 
and other types of energy storage devices at the Department of Physics.
119
Annual Report 2020_21

8. Thematic Laboratory: Cold Plasma Lab
Developed Electrical Characterization Set-up for the testing of Dielectric Barrier Discharge Systems
Fig. Electrical Characterization set-up for the testing of DBD systems
New projects in the Department of Physics
Outreach
1.	
Electronic and thermoelectric properties of Bi2Te3-xSx 
and Sb2Te3-xSx: A density functional theory approach and 
Scanning tunnelling microscopy study of surface states for 
the enhancement of thermoelectric efficiency, PI: Satyajit 
Sahu
2.	
Cold Plasma Detergent in the Environment to fight 
COVID-19, Industry-sponsored project, Approved in June 
2020. PI: Dr. Ram Prakash
3.	
Design and Development of Dielectric Barrier Discharge 
Based Flat VUV/UV Excimer Light Sources for Advanced 
Applications in Health and Medicine, DST-SERB, Approved 
in December 2020. PI: Dr. Ram Prakash
4.	
Design and development of small-scale milk disinfection 
system using mercury-free plasma (MFP) UV Lamp 
technology, DC, MSME, Govt. of India, Approved in January 
2021. PI: Dr. Ram Prakash
5.	
Uniquely identifying Lorentz structure of new physics 
in semi-leptonic B decays SERB (Core Research Grant) 
Approved in Dec 2020. PI: Ashutosh Kumar Alok
6.	
High voltage (~5V) ultrafast charging/ discharging cathode 
materials in bulk and nano geometries for high power Li ion 
rechargeable batteries, DST-SERB, Approved in December 
2020. PI: Dr.
1.	
Satyajit Sahu delivered an invited talk at the BRICS conclave, 
Chelyabinsk, Russia virtually.
2.	
Prabhat K. Jaiswal delivered a Guest Lecture on “Quantum 
and Statistical Mechanics: Foundation of Statistical 
Mechanics” at Amity Institute of Applied Sciences, Amity 
University, Noida on 24th March 2021.
3.	
Prabhat K. Jaiswal delivered an Invited Talk on “Phase-
separation Kinetics of Binary Mixtures” in a Webinar on 
‘Challenges Involved in Simulating the Complex Systems’ 
at the Department of Physics, Birla Institute of Technology 
Mesra, Ranchi on 25th July 2020.
4.	
Ram Prakash organized a product exhibition of the Institute 
during the 6th Convocation of the Institute in the Main 
Lecture Hall of the Institute on 6th December 2020.
120
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

New high end research instrumentation through project in the Department of 
Physics
New Technologies developed in the Department of Physics
1.	
A 50 kV (peak to peak) variable bi-polar pulse power supply 
with frequency range 5kHz-50kHz
2.	
Tektronix High-Voltage Passive Probe 40 kV
3.	
Rogowski-type Pearson current monitor Output resistance 
50 Ohms, Maximum peak current ~5000 A Maximum rms 
current 65 A.
4.	
Air Ion Counter Range: 2 million and 200 million
5.	
Computational workstations
6.	
Glove-Box for energy storage applications
7.	
High-energy Ball-Mill for energy storage applications
1. Developed an Advanced Photocatalytic Oxidation 
Sterilization System based on UV-light and metal oxide 
nanoparticles catalyst to treat N95 Filtering Face-mask 
Respirators for reuse in the year 2020 and the developed 
system was tested by AIIMS, Jodhpur. This system can easily 
disinfect around two hundred N95 FFR in a single day. The
technical know-how was transferred to eight industries 
and one NGO during May-June, 2020. The project was led 
by Ram Prakash with other significant contributions from 
Deepak Fulwani, Ambesh Dixit, Ankur Gupta and Shankar 
Manoharan and their associated students.
5.	
Ram Prakash delivered an invited lecture in the 6th 
India International Science Festival (IISF-2020) at the 
Water Conclave under the theme: Jal Vimarsh: Scientific 
Innovations in Society Session that was organized in the 
online mode during 22nd-25th, December 2020 at Delhi.
6.	
Ram Prakash co-coordinated the first Entrepreneurship/
Faculty Development Program organized in the Domain 
of Medium Small and Micro Enterprises in online mode 
during 15th February – 27th February 2021 at IITJ TISC 
and delivered a talk on “TISC Activities at IIT Jodhpur” and 
motivated the participants. The program was conducted in 
collaboration with the DST Rajasthan and was supported 
by National Science & Technology Entrepreneurship 
Development Board, Department of Science and 
Technology, Government of India.
7.	
Ram Prakash delivered two lectures on “Technology 
Sourcing: Support available from R&D Institutions” in the 
Entrepreneurship/Faculty Development Program organized 
in the Domain of Medium Small and Micro Enterprises in 
an online mode and was conducted twice during 15th 
February – 27th February 2021 and during 1st March – 13th 
March 2021 at IITJ TISC.
8.	
Ambesh Dixit delivered a popular lecture organized by 
Marudhara Vigyana Bharati.
9.	
Ambesh Dixit delivered an invited talk at Indian Planetary 
Science Conferences during February 2021.
10. Ambesh Dixit delivered an invited talk at Russian – Indian 
Network for Institutions of Higher Education (RIN), 
organized at IIT Bombay.
11. Ambesh Dixit delivered several invited talks at different 
Indian Universities under Faculty Development Programs.
12. B M Krishna Mariserla delivered a lecture as an invited 
speaker for a Faculty Development Program (FDP) 
on Nanomaterials: Experimental design & Theoretical 
Modeling, 13-20 Feb 2021, Organizers: NIT Warangal and 
NITDM Kurnool.
13. Shahab Ahmad delivered an invited talk on “Advanced 
Materials for New Generation Energy Storage Devices” at 
the 2nd International Conference on Graphene and Novel 
Nanomaterials (GNN 2020) held at Beijing, China on 01-04 
Nov 2020 (Online).
14. Shahab Ahmad delivered an invited talk on “New 
Generation Energy Storage Devices” at The Online 
Symposium (Nano materials) - Russian-Indian Network of 
Institution of Higher Education (RIN), jointly organized by 
IIT Bombay, India and Tomsk State University, Russia on 03-
05th Nov 2020 (Online).
121
Annual Report 2020_21

Fig.2 IITJ’s APCO Sterilization System for FFRs
Fig. 3. APCOC system; Technology know-how transferred successfully
2. Developed an Advanced Photocatalytic Oxidation 
Conveyor System named as ‘APCOC’ for sterilization of 
surfaces, such as food packets, books, mobile phones, 
laptops, carry bags, courier bundles, etc. This technology 
can also be used on some of the thick peel food items, 
leather items, during the packaging of herbs and seeds, 
etc. and may reduce the number of complete washdowns 
required during processing, thereby saving resources, 
such as water, chemicals, and energy costs. The developed 
sterilization method is a substitute for traditional chemicals 
and scrubbing agents, which will be highly useful for the 
general public during the pandemic particularly at public
places, such as airports, railways, healthcare facilities, 
college and university libraries, shopping malls, commercial 
buildings, public buildings, etc. This APCOC system 
mitigates cross-contamination concerns and is able to 
sterilize items via a dry process even in the shadow regions. 
The technical know-how of this technology was transferred 
to M/s Potre Automation Pvt. Ltd. Noida on 27th January, 
2021 for its mass production. The project was led by Ram 
Prakash with other significant contributions from Deepak 
Fulwani, Ambesh Dixit, Ankur Gupta, Neha Jain and their 
associated students.
122
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl. No. Faculty Name Post Research Areas
1 Abhishek Narain
Singh Assistant Professor Information security management, Cybersecurity, E-Governance, ICT for
Development
2 Akanksha
Choudhary YFA Development economics, education and health economics, public policy
and gender studies
3 Anuj Pal Kapoor Assistant Professor Consumer Behaviour, Consumer Anthropology, Multi-Sensory Marketing,
Visual Aesthetics
4 Devi Prasad Dash Assistant Professor Economics: Energy Economics, Urban Economics, Economics of Crime
5 Gaurav Kumar Assistant Professor Finance: Digital Finance, Stock Markets, Corporate Finance
6 Krishna Kumar
Balaraman Head, Associate
Professor Strategic Management, Business Models, Strategic Foresight, Micro
foundations of Strategy and Capabilities, Behavioural Strategy,
Entrepreneurship, Strategic Decision Making, Strategic Alliances,
International Business, Organizational Learning, and Corporate
Governance
7 Manish Aggarwal Associate Professor Computational Intelligence
8 Mayank Kumar Assistant Professor Healthcare IT, Technology Adoption, Public health, Smart health, Social
Media
9 Mithu Rani Kuiti YFA Operations: Green Supply Chain Management & Reliability Theory
10 Preeti Tiwari Assistant Professor Social Entrepreneurship/Entrepreneurship/Sustainability
11 Ram Krishna Mitra Professor of Practice Strategy, Public Policy, e-Governance
12 Sankalp Pratap Associate Professor Entrepreneurship-as-Practice; Strategy-as-Practice
13 Venkat Ram Reddy Assistant Professor Judgment and Decision Making; Behaviour Change
14 Venkatesha Murthy Assistant Professor Start-ups, and Micro-Small-Medium Scale Enterprises
15 Yerasani Sinjana Assistant Professor Operations: Social Networking, Supply Chain Management
School of Management & 
Entrepreneurship (SME)
The School of Management & Entrepreneurship (SME) is a 
forward-looking bold experiment to create and deliver a novel 
value proposition in the management and entrepreneurship 
education sector in India. Underlying this experiment is the 
stark realization that on account of fast-paced technological 
changes, the era of stable paradigms in the industry which could 
be exploited through traditional business models, has come to 
an end. The future will belong to those who are comfortable
with technologically-dynamic business models, derived from 
continual expression of entrepreneurial energy exhibited by 
organizational members. To this end, SME has created a program 
which integrates technology, management and entrepreneurship 
through an institutional framework which leverages various 
engineering disciplines, interdisciplinary programs, its own 
innovation and incubation centre, humanities department apart 
from management faculties.
The following faculty members were associated with the School during 2020-21.
123
Annual Report 2020_21

Message from Prof. Krishna Kumar 
Balaraman, Head, SME
Dr. Krishna Kumar 
Balaraman, Head, SME
We live in challenging yet exciting times. The next few years 
will be challenging for the world as it figures out how business 
is conducted in the new reality. At the same time, it is also a 
period showcasing the resilience of the human spirit and how 
we constantly adapt to emerge stronger. Technology is playing 
a major part in this resurgence of the human spirit, and is 
repositioning business management and education.
The School of Management and Entrepreneurship (SME) at 
IIT Jodhpur was born during this transitional cusp and has 
found immediate relevance to its vision of technology-focused 
management education and research. SME’s Tech-MBA is a 
sought-after program, and has generated great interest among 
students and the industry. SME, as an entrepreneurial venture by 
itself, is beginning to make a mark for itself among management 
schools in a short time of just over a year – full winter (social 
sector) and summer internship placement for its pioneering 
MBA batch, a doctoral program completing its first year, popular 
minor programs in management and entrepreneurship as part 
of IIT Jodhpur’s flagship program, multiple student-driven 
events, and evolving industry collaboration, to name a few. We 
are now moving successfully into inducting the next batch of 
MBA and PhD students with international students applying for 
its doctoral program. Many MBA students have been selected 
for studying with partner Universities abroad, as part of the 
dual degree program, to pursue various degree programs in 
technology and management. The faculty have been publishing 
in top journals and are involved in IIT Jodhpur’s inter-disciplinary 
research programs. It is truly an exciting time to be part of SME, 
IIT Jodhpur as a faculty and as a student!
As SME marches ahead with its mission to enable a new 
generation of managers, entrepreneurs and leaders with 
foresight and humanistic values, it seeks able partners across 
the world, both in the academia and in the industry. Being part
of the IIT ecosystem, we have a lot to offer and look forward 
to working together in offering a futuristic experience to all its 
stakeholders.
The details of various activities undertaken by SME are as 
follows:
The School of Management and Entrepreneurship has started 
operating from a new building which is equipped with modern 
infrastructure from 4 Jan 2021 onwards.
For all the applications received between 22 April 2020 to 
23 June 2021, the process for Stage 1 and Stage 2 of the 
faculty recruitment is going on. The Stage 3 process is under 
consideration.
SME received approx. 2,500 registrations on MBA admission 
2021 portal. Out of which, a total 820 candidates have paid the 
application fee and completed the application form. Out of 
these 820 candidates, 728 candidates were initially shortlisted. 
These shortlisted candidates were asked to submit a recorded 
video introduction of themselves, for the final round of selection 
and preparation of composite merit score. Out of the 728 
candidates, 677 candidates submitted the video introduction, 
and were considered for preparing the merit list. Based on the 
decided cut-off, 512 candidates qualified for the final merit list. 
From these 512 candidates, admission offers have been released 
in various rounds. As on July 16, 2021, SME has 82 candidates 
who have paid the fee (after withdrawals). The induction 
program for the incoming MBA batch of 2021-23 was scheduled 
during July 15-19, 2021.
SME initiated its doctoral program in the year 2020. Doctoral 
candidates can be admitted to the school across the eight 
functional areas (viz. Digital Transformation and Business 
Intelligence, Economics, Finance and Accounting, Human 
Capital and Organizational Dynamics, Innovation and
124
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Entrepreneurship, Marketing, Strategy and Public Policy, 
Operations). The first cohort comprised a total of 9 students 
including 6 full–time regular students and 3 part-time online 
students. Part-time online students are working executives 
from the corporate world who are simultaneously carrying out 
their regular duties in their respective organizations and have 
obtained the concurrence of their organizations to pursue 
the doctoral program. Given the nature of the profession of 
management, the part-time online program is expected to 
bring in invaluable scholarship to this practice-oriented field of 
education.
In the first year, students undergo meaningful training in the 
form of a curated doctoral coursework which exposes them 
to various domains of management science, the underlying 
social science fundamentals and contemporary research 
methodologies. Apart from area specific fundamental courses, 
students would undergo courses on Literature Review and 
Theory building, Philosophy of Science and introductory courses 
on Sociology, Psychology and Economics. Methodology courses 
exposing students to Quantitative techniques and Qualitative 
techniques would conclude with skill building lab courses. 
Finally, students would undertake area specific electives. Along 
the coursework, students would also get exposure to inputs 
around academic writing and case writing, both in workshop 
mode. The first batch initiated its coursework in the online mode 
on account of the Covid restrictions, and subsequently after a 
few months, with due care and precautions, the students came 
to the campus. In the upcoming second year, the inaugural 
batch would appear for the qualifier examinations and would 
defend the respective research proposals. SME envisions that 
its students would carry out practice oriented fundamental 
research which caters to the relevant contemporary national 
and global issues.
Student activities are an integral part of the management 
education for MBA students. These activities help students 
to develop problem-solving, reasoning, critical thinking, 
creative thinking, communication, and collaborative abilities. 
Co-curricular activities emphasize that in the 21st Century, 
education and learning must surpass the four walls of a 
classroom. The core aim of education and learning should 
be to foster holistic development. The importance of co-
curricular activities cannot be overlooked in fostering holistic 
development. On the same front SME has been striving and 
excelling in organizing various student activities in spite of 
pandemic and operating digitally. We started with our 1-week 
long packed online induction program in July 2020. It was a 
grand success as the first online event which involved people 
from leadership positions around the world and students 
across IIT Jodhpur. Thereafter, there were a vast range of 
events and activities which were organised by various clubs
and committees of the school for the students of SME as well 
as for the larger student community of IIT Jodhpur. The list of 
the prime activities conducted during AY 2020-21 are listed in 
the sheet. Besides, students of the School, under the guidance 
of the School faculty, worked tirelessly to come up with a 
revamped website for the school.
The Placement Committee vanguards the on-campus 
recruitment process for both Summer Internships and Final 
Placements. It is also responsible for building long standing 
corporate relationships through Industry Engagement in 
the form of Guest Lectures, Industry Interaction Series and 
numerous other confluences. The School of Management and 
Entrepreneurship (SME), IIT Jodhpur, has in its very first year 
made a modest beginning as a B-school which despite starting 
in the most trying of circumstances, amidst a pandemic has 
come out with flying colours in various academic parameters, 
one of those being the Summer Placements with 100% of the 
batch placed. SME IIT Jodhpur was founded in the year 2019 
with a mission to embrace the digital revolution and produce 
managers who possess sound business acumen along with 
a sagacity for technology. The internship placement process, 
which was conducted virtually, witnessed 78 offers for its 68 
students. A total of 44 firms participated in the placement drive 
with the highest, median and average stipends being 1.05 lacs, 
60k and 51.5k respectively for the internship duration. The 
recruiters for summer placement came from diverse sectors 
such as manufacturing, IT, e-commerce and PSUs. The roles 
offered belong to the domain of AI Consulting, Value Analysis, 
Market Research and Product Launch among others.
Social Sector Attachment (SSA) is a Non-Graded compulsory 
course that is entirely live project-based. As a part of this 
initiative, SSA introduces students to the ‘Third Sector 
Organisations,’ which creates or attempts to develop superior 
societal/environmental value. The students will be exposed 
to these organizations during their winter break. SME at IIT 
Jodhpur focuses on creating socially responsible managers. 
The student has to complete an SSA course through a winter 
internship in a socially inclined organization to achieve this. This 
year our students worked in the 11 organizations viz. Right Walk 
Foundation, Adhyayan Foundation, Soch, Cry, Mind foundation, 
People's Vigilance Committee on Human Rights (PVCHR) etc.
The School has tie-ups with some of the leading business 
schools in the world. Specific arrangements have been made to 
offer SME IITJ students dual degree options. The SME students 
would do their MBA core courses in the first-year at SME, IIT 
Jodhpur, and thereon would study specialized courses in the 
second year at a partner institution abroad. The students in 
this program would earn MBA degree from IIT Jodhpur and a 
specialized Master’s degree from the partner B-School. SME IITJ 
has partnerships with George Washington University, Business
125
Annual Report 2020_21

Club/ Committee Event/ Activity Description
Mint Money - The
Finance Club Session on Personal
Finance A session on personal finance by CFA Gajendra Kothari with discussion on SIPs,
investments, etc.
TradeXia Simulated trading game on various platforms organized for the batch
Finance Quiz Finance quiz organized for the batch
Square Off - D2C A national level quiz competition on finance organized on D2C
Alpha - D2C A national level Equity research challenge organized on D2C
Financial Analysis Informative content pieces and analyses shared with the batch
Sanskriti -
The Cultural
Committee Dumb Charades The classic game of charades with the batch
Diwali Night Celebrating Diwali with the batch with performances by our talented batchmates
SME Awards A fun award nights where various aspects of the batchmates were addressed
Unusual Suspects A murder-mystery treasure hunt organized with Ethiros theatre group, sponsored by
Fatafat.
O.W.L.s or N.E.W.T.s? A Harry Potter theme quiz organized for the students of IITJ
Topsy Turvy A game where participants had to guess Bollywood songs from their english translated
lyrics
Interactions Get-togethers and fun games organized over the last year
Toastmasters Club Roleplay Participants were asked to re-enact scenes from popular shows to improve
interpersonal skills
Extempore Participants were given topics on the spot and asked to speak for two minutes
Guest Session A guest session by distinguished Toastmaster Ms Rita Sandhu
Guest Session A guest session by the President of the Jodhpur club of Toastmaster, Mr. Avin
Chhangani
Voice - The Media
Committee SME Magazine Published the SME magazine, 2020, Sandarsh Issue 1
Social Media Updates and maintaining social media channels
Live streams Live streaming events prganized by other clubs/ committees on YouTube
Content Creation Certificates, Flyers, and Videos created for brochures, and social media
Promotions Promotion, and sponsorship through The Hawk, Dainik Bhaskar, and 94.3 MyFM
School, SUNY Albany, and Brandeis International Business 
School, in the USA. In the very first year of SME, the students 
have shown a great interest and a good number of them are 
going to begin their studies at the partner institutions towards 
earning double degrees.
The School has organized two MDPs- one on ‘Foreign Trade: 
Advantage India’ and other on ‘Cyber Security’ on 09–10 October 
2020 and 12–13 December 2020, respectively. Eminent industry 
professionals and experts and faculty of the School shared 
their insights with the participants. The programmes were 
appreciated by the participants.
Student Activities
126
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Club/ Committee Event/ Activity Description
TechCom Geek of SME A year long-running programming and quizzing competition
Le Concour de Quiz
Technologique A national event that tested participants based on their knowledge of Amalgamation
of general expertise in technology
MarkTech Group Discussion Group discussions for students of IITJ on various topics to pick the 'Marketeer of the
week'
Quiz-a-thon Quiz for students of IITJ on various topics to pick the 'Marketeer of the week'
MarkTalks A talk-series encompassing various themes under which prominent speakers from the
industry shared their experience and insights
Markitude A national level marketing competition which involved preparation of ads and a case
study
Webinar A webinar on product marketing by Mr. Ankit Goswami, Airtel
Vcare - Social
Sector Connect Kartavyam A national level case study competition organized on D2C
Winter Internships Reached out to organizations for Winter Internships
I-Rise - Analytics
Club Analytics Conclave Prominent speakers from the field of Business Technology, and Data analytics were
invited to share their expertise on various topics.
Sports analytics National Level Data Analytics competition hosted on D2C platform in association with
Sports committee
Workshop Workshop on data analytics tools in association with Havish M Consulting
Sessions Sessions on data analytics tools by club members covering python, Tableau, PowerBI,
Excel
Info Series Brief series on LinkedIn capturing the facts based on topics like Product management,
Data analytics etc.
Guest session Session on “KPIs used by startups to assess themselves based on data” with Mr. Akshay
Kapoor, Founder Yammlabs
Khelo - Sports
Committee Chess competition An online chess competition for the batch
Fantasy League A fantasy league for cricket lovers was organized for the duration of IPL
Squat Challenge Squat challenge was organized for fitness lovers
Blaze Online sports and eSports fest for students of SME
Exuberance Organized for the prospective MBA candidates
Exousia A week-long national level online sports fest
SME Connect Guest Sessions 30 guest sessions organized over the year
National Science Day Science day competitions organized for the IITJ students which included 4 events:
- Panel Discussion
- Pitch competition
- Theory Crafting
- Sci-fi Content Creation
Startups Club Bootstrappers Guild SME's first-ever newsletter
Guest session Organised a session on BIG Scheme by Mr. K.K. Roy (COO, FITT, IITD)
Entrepreneurial
Experience Setting up a Maggi stall during a cricket match to get hands-on entrepreneurial
experience
EDP session Collaborated with TISC, IIT Jodhpur in their Entrepreneurship Development Program
Guest Session Spent a day with Mr. Vikas Jain (Director at Nanobot) and discussed his entrepreneurial
journey. Mr. Jain gave a tour of Nanobot's manufacturing factory and interacted with
participants in a webinar.
127
Annual Report 2020_21

Club/ Committee Event/ Activity Description
Biz Fest
Committee SMEraQi A mini business festival with two events under its belt – SME Shutter ’21 (A
photography competition) and Square Off ’21 (A finance quiz competition).
Campus Ambassador
Program Campus Ambassador Program for our Business fest - उद्योग FEST
उद्योग FEST The flagship business festival with 7 competitions under its banner
Placement
Committee Sandstone Summit Industry conclave with 4 events under its banner:
- HR Shastra: Organized panel discussions and standalone talks with senior human
resource executives from reputed organizations
- Impresario: This consisted of standalone sessions with senior executives across diverse
range of companies and popular startups.
- Presedium: This series of standalone guest lecture series featured eminent
personalities from the industry holding positions like Managing Directors and CXOs
from reputed organizations.
- In conversation: A fire side chat with eminent industry personalities and startup
founders moderated by either a student or a faculty
Sessions Guest sessions under the banner of Industry Interaction series
Embrace -
Admission
Committee Two cents from top
CAT percentilers A write-up from the CAT toppers was published.
Month in a Minute A few short videos (<2mins) of the events (month wise) were published.
100 Days @ SME Short videos depicting Campus life were published.
From the Faculty’s
Desk Interactions with faculty as a write-up was published.
Experience @ SME Short videos (<5 mins) explaining the experience at school thus far
Exordium Webinar series encompassing the unique features of the school explained by our
faculty
Symposium An interactive webinar series hosting the current clubs and committees
Master Class Series of sessions led by the faculty to provide students the flavour of our curriculum
here at SME
Dual Degree Webinar sessions hosting the students from the current batch (going for Dual Degree)
Adhyapan Video showcasing the values of SME, narrated by the Director of our school
Sl. No. Description of Awards and Recognitions Faculty members
1 Gaurav Kumar, Cal Muckley, Linh Pham, Darragh Ryan, Runners-up in the 2020 Research
Impact Case Study Competition organised by UCD Dublin, Ireland, 2021 Gaurav Kumar
2 UNESCO Fellow Anuj Kapoor
3 RDW Fellowship award by ILO Akanksha Choudhary
4 Excellence in research/Best Thesis award by IIT Bombay Akanksha Choudhary
Awards and Recognitions
128
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl. No. Description of Conference Presentations Faculty members
1 Devi Prasad Dash presented a paper on "Examining impact of COVID-19 on Domestic
Violence: Evidence from India" at International Conference on Reviving Global Economy
in New Normal in Virtual Mode at Dept of Economics, Birla Global University on 26-27 Feb,
2021. Devi Prasad Dash
2 Learning of Preference Zones with evolutionary approach in IIT Russian Symposium, Sep.
28-Oct. 1, 2020. Manish Aggarwal
3 Re-Imagining Diffusion and Adoption of Information Technology and Systems: A
Continuing Conversation (IFIP WG 8.6 Working Conference)- Session Chair Mayank Kumar
4 IIM Lucknow - IIM Trichy - INAIS Joint Paper Development Workshop for ICIS 2021 Role:
Co-author for paper: Towards Adopting Quantum Computing for Healthcare: A Grounded
Theory Approach (Co-Author: Sudeept Maharana) Mayank Kumar
5 IIM Lucknow - IIM Trichy - INAIS Joint Paper Development Workshop for ICIS 2021 Role: Co-
author for paper: Theorizing Gender in Status (re)production through care work on Digital
Platforms: An Empirical examination with Female care workers (Co-Author: Arunima Iyer) Mayank Kumar
6 IIM Lucknow - IIM Trichy - INAIS Joint Paper Development Workshop for ICIS 2021
Role: (Live Reviewer) for paper: Smart contracts – A systematic literature review Mayank Kumar
7 International Conference of Finance and Business Analytics (ICFBA 2021)
Role: Advisory Committee Member Mayank Kumar
1. ■ Co-Chair and Organizer - Sandstone Summit as part of Corporate Interaction. Four (4)
Line-ups Launched: HR Shastra, Praesidium, Impressario and InConversation
■ Launched first-of-its-kind (In India) candid B-School Corporate talk show
(InConversation) Anuj Kapoor
2. ■ Resource person for session on ‘Entrepreneurial Decision Making’ as part of
Entrepreneurship Development Program, at SME IIT Jodhpur 2021
■ Delivered Master Class on Use of Algorithms to Design Internal Labor Markets to
prospective MBA aspirants at SME IIT Jodhpur 2021
■ Resource person for training (Staff Officers Course, Senior Level, CRPF) 2020
■ Resource person for training (Newly Promoted Assistant Commandant Course, CRPF)
2020
■ Designed and Developed Cognitive Skills Module for Trainers of Internal Security
Academy Mount Abu 2020
■ Mentored two student startups pertaining to gamified learning and computer vision
leading to successful onboarding by incubators
■ Delivered Invited Lecture on “Why human intelligence is not what IQ tests measure?” at
Ashoka University 2020
■ Conceptualized and initiated SME Connect Program - Platform that enables SME
interact with eminent personalities from all walks of life Venkat Ram
Conference Presentations
Outreach Activities
129
Annual Report 2020_21

3. ■ As part of MBA Admission 2020, I led various outreach activities that together
contributed to a successful completion of the admission. Some of these major
activities included: The digital campaign; Delivering multiple webinars at various
coaching institutes with the MBA participants and counsellors, MBA Admissions 2020
■ Co-led the Embrace (students-run admission committee of the school) for promoting
(including digital marketing) the school and its flagship ofefrings, MBA Admission 2021
■ Led the digital campaign for Ph.D. admission of SME, April-June 2021
■ Delivered a session on “writing literature review” as part of research seminar series at
the Indian Institute of Management Tiruchirappalli (IIM Trichy), 19th March 2021
■ Delivered a Webinar on “Social Media Analytics” at Christ University-Lavasa Campus as
part of their guest lecture series, Date: 16th April 2021
■ Delivered a session on IoT as per the EDP organized by TISC, 8th March 2021
■ Co-chaired the analytics conclave organized by i-rise and SME_connect Mayank Kumar
4. ■ Delivered a session in an international workshop titled, “The Dynamics of Socio-
Cultural Polarization: Role of Information & Communication Technologies”, organised
IIM Ahmedabad & SPARC delivered on 08 May 2021
■ Delivered a session in a National level workshop, titled, “Entrepreneurship
Development Programme” organised jointly by TISC, IITJ & DST Rajasthan between 16
Feb 2021 and 2 March 2021
■ Delivered a session online on Strategic and Innovation Management for students of
Master of Fashion Management, National Institute of Fashion Technology-Jodhpur on
09 September 2021 Venkatesha Murthy
■ Delivered a session on “Big Data Analytics & its Applications” on June 28, 2021 in online
high end workshops organized by IIT-ISM Dhanbad on Data Science and Analytical
Tools and Techniques (28 June - 2 July, 2021)
■ Organized a 1.5 days (Dec 12-13, 2020) Management Development Program (MDP) on
“Cybersecurity: Contemporary Issues, Challenges and Countermeasures” for security
forces and police personnel
a) As Chairperson - MBA Admission 2021, coordinated and took part in following
activities:
Coordination with joint admission team of pan-IIT B-Schools for MBA admission
advertisement, promotions, CAT score verification, etc.
b) Preparation of MBA Admissions 2021 brochure
c) Making of SME IIT Jodhpur’s promotional video for MBA admissions
d) Revamping of MBA admissions portal
e) Coordination with Embrace (current MBA students team) for various promotional
activities, designing of collaterals, social media promotions, etc.
f) Regular monitoring of PagalGuy, Quora and similar platforms to address
admission-related queries
g) Master Class Series by SME faculty for prospective students Abhishek Narain Singh
130
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

5. ■ Other promotional activities include:
i) Webinars and Open Houses for prospective candidates with SME faculty and
current MBA students
ii) Exclusive webinars with Global dual-degree partners
iii) Collaboration with MBA coaching institutes e.g. IMS and TIME for counsellor
webinar, webinar with students, digital banner on their platform, email and SMS
to their registered students
iv) Online campaign with third party platform PagalGuy
v) Online presence on MBA information related websites (aggregators) e.g.
CollegeDunia, Career360, MBA Universe, Shiksha, Inside IIM etc.
vi) Digital marketing campaigns, both paid as well as unpaid, on social media
platforms such as Facebook, LinkedIn, YouTube, Instagram and Twitter and
through Google AdWords
vii) Promotional videos of School, faculty and current students highlighting various
facets of the SME
viii) Head SME’s article published on InsideIIM Abhishek Narain Singh
6. Organised “Master Class” on contemporary TechMBA modules for the MBA aspirants Anuj Kapoor and Gaurav
Kumar
7. Invited Panelist in the conference Vidhyanidhi - "Sustainable Business Management Practice
and Social Innovation (ICSBMPSI – 2021)" January 30, 2021 Krishna Kumar Balaraman
8. Invited Speaker by Learning matters on "Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning:
Foundation Masterclass" on March 9, 2021 - Participants- select students across 32 colleges
in Karnataka and Maharashtra Krishna Kumar Balaraman
9. Promotion of Tech MBA for prospective/incoming students in June-July 2020 Manish Aggarwal
10. Promotional sessions on Dual-degree and Tech MBA propositions for prospective/incoming
students in Mar - May 2021 Manish Aggarwal
Induction Program of the first MBA batch (2020-2023)
131
Annual Report 2020_21

School of Artificial Intelligence 
and Data Science (AIDE)
In December 2020, Prof. Geoffrey Hinton, Turing Award Winner, inaugurated the School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science (aka 
AIDE School) at IIT Jodhpur. Currently, the following faculty members are associated with the school.
Name & Research Areas
Prof. Santanu 
Chaudhury
Head of the School, 
AIDE
 Director, IIT Jodhpur
Anirban Ghosh
Assistant Professor
Department of 
Metallurgical & 
Materials Engineering
eMail: aghosh@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 
1558
Anand Krishnan 
Plappally
Assistant Professor
Department 
of Mechanical 
Engineering
eMail: anandk@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 
1507
Arun Kumar Singh
Associate Professor
Department of 
Electrical Engineering
eMail: singhak@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 
1358
Angan Sengupta
Assistant Professor
Department of Chemical 
Engineering
eMail: angan@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 1706
Debasis Das
Assistant Professor
Department of Computer 
Science & Engineering
eMail: debasis@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 1261
Anil Kumar Tiwari
Associate Professor
Department of 
Electrical Engineering
eMail: akt@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 
1353
Deepak Mishra
Assistant Professor
Department of Computer 
Science & Engineering
eMail: dmishra@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 1262
132
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Joydeep Dutta
Professor
Dilpreet Kaur
Assistant Professor
Department of 
Mathematics
eMail: dilpreetkaur@iitj.
ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 146
Mayank Vatsa
Professor
Professor and Swarnajayanti 
Fellow, Department of CSE
Project Director, iHUB Drishti
TIH on Computer Vision and 
AR-VR under NM-CPS
IIT Jodhpur, India
Adjunct Faculty, WVU, USA
eMail: mvatsa@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 1266
Krishna Kumar 
Balaraman
Associate Professor
School of Management 
& Entrepreneurship
eMail: krishna@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 
1815
Dip Sankar 
Banerjee
Associate Professor
Department of Computer 
Science & Engineering
eMail: dipsankarb@iitj.
ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 1272
Neeraj Jain
Professor
Department of 
Bioscience and 
Bioengineering
eMail: neeraj.jain@iitj.
ac.in
Manish Aggarwal
Associate Professor
School of Management & 
Entrepreneurship
eMail: ma@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 1811
Gaurav Bhatnagar
Associate Professor
Department of 
Mathematics
eMail: goravb@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 1457
Nil Kamal Hazra
Assistant Professor
Department of 
Mathematics
eMail: nilkamal@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 1458
Manish Narwaria
Assistant Professor
Department of Electrical 
Engineering 
eMail: narwaria@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 1367
Gaurav Kumar
Assistant Professor
School of Management 
& Entrepreneurship
eMail: gauravkumar@
iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 
1805
P. Ravi Prakash
Assistant Professor
Department of Civil 
and Infrastructure 
Engineering
eMail: rp@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 
1661
133
Annual Report 2020_21

Ranju Mohan
Assistant Professor
Department of Civil 
Engineering
eMail: ranju@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 
1657
Pankaj Yadav
Assistant Professor
Department of 
Bioscience & 
Bioengineering
eMail: pyadav@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 
1211
Sandeep Kumar 
Yadav
Associate Professor
Department of 
Electrical Engineering
eMail: sy@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 
1354
Reetanjali 
Moharana
Assistant Professor
Department of Physics
eMail: reetanjali@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 1616
Pradip Kumar 
Tewari
Visiting Professor
Department of Chemical 
Engineering
eMail: pradiptewari@iitj.
ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 1703
Sankalp Pratap
Associate Professor
School of Management 
& Entrepreneurship
eMail: sp@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 
1817
Richa Singh
Professor & Head, 
Department of CSE
Associate EiC, Pattern 
Recognition Journal
Vice President - Publications, 
IEEE Biometrics Council
eMail: richa@iitj.ac.in, head_
cse@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 1267
Puneet Sharma
Associate Professor
Department of 
Mathematics
eMail: puneet@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 1455
Saptarshi Mukherjee
Associate Professor
Department of Humanities 
and Social Sciences
eMail: saptarshi@hss.iitd.
ac.in
Phone: (91 112) 659 7396
Ruhi Sonal
Assistant Professor
Department of 
Humanities and Social 
Sciences
eMail: ruhisonal@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 1416
Rajendra Nagar
Assistant Professor
Department of 
Electrical Engineering
eMail: rn@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 
1369
Sumit Kalra
Assistant Professor
Department of 
Computer Science & 
Engineering
eMail: sumitk@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 
1259
134
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sushmita Paul
Assistant Professor
Department of 
Bioscience & 
Bioengineering
eMail: sushmitapaul@
iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 
1207
V. Narayanan
Assistant Professor
Department of Physics
eMail: vnara@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 
1607
V. V. M. S. 
Chandramouli
Assistant Professor
Department of 
Mathematics
eMail: chsarma@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 1456
Vivek Vijay
Assistant Professor
Department of 
Mathematics
eMail: vivek@iitj.ac.in
Phone: (91 291) 280 
1454
School Faculty Board: The First Meeting of School Faculty 
Board held on 02 Dec 2020 to discuss the vision and mission 
of the School. The following faculty members are assigned to 
various committees.
■
Dr. Richa Singh: Chair, Faculty Search Committee
■
Dr. Mayank Vatsa: Chairman, School Research Committee
■
Dr. Sankalp Pratap: Chair, Innovation and Entrepreneurship 
Committee
■
Dr. Ranju Mohan: Convener, School Faculty Board
■
Dr. Mayank Vatsa: AI Standards Group, Convener
■
Dr. Anil Kumar Tiwari AI & IP, Convener
■
Dr. Sumit Kalra: Website in-charge
■
Social Media Coordinators
Dr. Anirban Ghosh (LinkedIn and Facebook)
Dr. Sankalp Pratap (Instagram)
Dr. Mayank Vatsa (Twitter)
Collaboration with Prithvi-AI: On 22 Dec 2020, Mr. Nandan 
Mishra, Founder and Chief Strategy Officer, Prithvi.AI gave 
a short presentation on Prithvi.AI’s vision, current projects, 
ventures, opportunities and possibilities. Areas of possible 
collaboration with School of AIDE include AI in process control, 
IoT-based sensing, Geospatial technology, Computer Vision, and 
National language processing.
PhD Admission: The School of AIDE has commenced the PhD 
program for the AY 2021-22.
Faculty recruitment: Scrutiny committee for faculty application 
screening met in the month of March 2021. The final selection 
committee meeting is planned for the month of May 2021.
TIHs/ MoU with Companies: A draft framework is prepared for 
MoU signing with companies and industries (Coordinators: Dr. 
Sankalp Pratap and Dr. Krishna Balaraman)
Centre of Excellence: Operational model of Centre of 
Excellences under the school is presented in the month of 
March. The School has currently two Centres of Excellences:
■
Brain Science and Applications
■
Mathematical and Computational Economics
Thar Talk Series: AI & Beyond The School’s webinar series is 
named as Thar Talk Series (Coordinators: Dr. Rajendra Nagar 
and Dr. Manish Narwaria) and is planned to start from May 2021 
AIDE School - Thar Talk Series (iitj.ac.in)
Summer Internship Program: The first summer internship 
program offered by the School is planned to start from 15 June 
2021 (Coordinator: Dr. Ranju Mohan)
Activities under School of AIDE
135
Annual Report 2020_21

IDRP - Digital Humanities (DH)
The Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur started the 
Interdisciplinary Research Platform on Digital Humanities (IDRP-
DH) in 2019, making the Institute a pioneer in launching an 
exemplar platform for Digital Humanities in India. IDRP-DH offers 
unique state of the art curricula for M.Sc. and Ph.D. programs. 
With the launching of the platform, the Institute also joined 
hands nationally and globally with a new field of organized 
academic research, Digital Humanities, that emerged at the 
beginning of the 2000s examining the use and application of 
digital technologies in humanities, the liberal arts, social science 
scholarship, and beyond. The premise of IDRP-DH at IIT Jodhpur 
is on two aspects: (1) Digital Humanities is interdisciplinary, 
and therefore IDRP-DH focuses on integrating knowledge and 
methods from different disciplines using a real synthesis of 
approaches; and (2) the Digital Humanities platform investigates 
the unique relationship that technology has with the humanities, 
social sciences and similar other areas. Specifically, the DH 
platform examines questions that primarily arise out of the 
humanities, social sciences, and allied disciplines and those 
that necessitate answering with the use of technology, and also 
questions about humanities and social sciences that are enabled 
because of the presence of technology. This, of course, opens up 
a much larger discussion about the evolving nature of technology 
in society, a symbiotic one, that IDRP-DH also actively explores.
The following Faculty Members from different departments are 
associated with this IDRP
Department of Humanities and Social 
Sciences
1.	
Dr. Mayurakshi Chaudhuri, (Coordinator)
2.	
Dr. Kaamya Sharma
3.	
Dr. Natasa Thoudam
4.	
Dr. Parichay Patra
5.	
Dr. Prasenjeet Tribhuvan
6.	
Dr. Vidya Sarveswaran
Department of Computer Science and 
Engineering
7.	
Dr. Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay
8.	
Dr. Santanu Chaudhury
9.	
Dr. Suman Kundu
School of Management and 
Entrepreneurship
10. Dr. Mayank Kumar
Department of Mathematics
11. Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar
From outside IIT Jodhpur
1.	
Dr. Arjun Ghosh, IIT Delhi
2.	
Dr. Dibyadyuti Roy, formerly affiliated with IIM Indore
3.	
Dr. Ganesh Thottempudi, SRH University, Berlin and 
University of Heidelberg
4.	
Dr. Nirmala Menon, IIT Indore
5.	
Dr. Padmini Ray Murray, Design Beku, Bangalore
6.	
Prof. Prabuddha Ganguli, Vision-IPR
7.	
Dr. Vinayak Das Gupt, Shiv Nadar University
Conferences, Workshops, Seminars 
Organized
■
Dr. Mayurakshi Chaudhuri and Dr. Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay 
presented their research paper titled “Do Postcolonial 
Intersections Matter? Critical Epistemological Approaches 
to Digital Humanities and Mobility Studies in India” at the 
Digital Humanities 2020 Conference (Ottawa, July 2020, 
Virtual due to Covid-19). Other panelists included: Dr. Arjun 
Ghosh, Dr. Dibyadyuti Roy, and Dr. Nirmala Menon. The
136
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

panel discussion is available online at: Towards an Indian 
Decolonial/Postcolonial Digital Humanities: Panel for 
DH2020
■
DH@IIT Jodhpur at the Sixth IEEE International Conference 
on Multimedia Big Data (September 2020): Dr. Mayurakshi 
Chaudhuri was a core committee member (as Workshop Co-
Chair) at the IEEE International Conference on Multimedia 
Big Data, July 2020. Dr. Suman Kundu participated as an 
invited panelist at the Workshop titled “Digital Humanities 
into the Palm of Your Hand”
, Dr. Prasenjeet Tribhuvan 
and Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar organized two Workshops, 
respectively titled “Dwelling in the Intersections of State, 
Markets, and Big Data”
, and “Big Data in Healthcare”
.
■
Dr. Mayurakshi Chaudhuri delivered the Inaugural Address 
at the International Webinar on Digital Humanities 
organized by Sheshadripuram Evening Degree College in 
collaboration with Durham University, England, and Edith 
Cowan University, Australia, on 5th October, 2020. Dr. 
Chaudhuri’s talk was titled “Digital Humanities: Innovating 
Contours of Pedagogy in India”
, and can be accessed online.
■
Dr. Parichay Patra organized a workshop and a seminar 
as some of the major deliverables in his existing SPARC 
project titled ‘“Offering Provocations, Surfacing Evidence”: 
The Archiving of Cine-Politics under the Indian National 
Emergency through Digital Humanities 2.0’
. Funded by 
SPARC, Ministry of Education, Govt. of India, the project 
involves researchers from IIT Ropar, Royal Holloway, 
University of London, UK, and Wesleyan University, USA. 
March 2021.
Ongoing Projects
Project Title: Indian Heritage in Digital Space (IHDS) of 
Interdisciplinary Cyber Physical Systems
PI: Professor Santanu Chaudhury
Department of Science & Technology, Government of India
Project Title: Offering Provocations, Surfacing Evidence” : The
Archiving of Cine-Politics under the Indian National Emergency 
through Digital Humanities 2.0 Project
Dibyakusum Ray (Indian PI, IIT Ropar), Parichay Patra (Co-PI, IIT 
Jodhpur), Manishita Dass (Foreign PI, Royal Holloway, University 
of London, UK), Anuja Jain (Foreign Co-PI, Wesleyan University, 
USA), SPARC, Ministry of Human Resource Development, 
Government of India
Project Title: CRAFT: Collaborative Rejuvenation of Art, Furniture, 
and Textile Collaborative project with NIFT, JNVU, FDDI
(As part of the JCKIC project with PI Professor Santanu Chaudhury 
and Co-PI Professor Sampat Raj Vadera), Government of India.
Guest Lecture Series – varDHa
Digital Humanities IDRP started a Lecture Series, ‘varDHa’ 
(Sanskrit: to prosper), in AY 2020-2021 to facilitate intellectual and 
scholarly exchange and also for helping students to be familiar 
with opportunities related to Digital Humanities. The following 
eminent scholars were invited:
Speaker 1: Dr. Bryan Carter, Associate Professor of Africana 
Studies and the Director of the Centre for Digital Humanities at 
the University of Arizona; Wednesday, January 6, 2021. 7:30PM IST
Title of the talk: Through the Looking Glass of Digital Humanities 
- Engaging The Next Generation
Speaker 2: Prof. Partha Pratim Das, Professor at the Department 
of Computer Science and Engineering, IIT Kharagpur, and Joint 
Principal Investigator of National Digital Library of India project of 
MHRD, Govt. of India; Monday, January 25, 2021
Topic: The National Digital Library of India
Speaker 3: Ms. Richa Sharma, Multi-genre musician, performing 
artist and music composer; Saturday, February 06, 2021
Topic: Making Music in the Digital Era: A Conversation with Richa 
Sharma of Muktiverse
Speaker 4: Mr. Siddhant Mohan, Journalist; Monday, March 15, 
2021
Topic: Digital Journalism
varDHa: A DH Seminar Series at IIT Jodhpur
137
Annual Report 2020_21

IDRP - Internet of Things (IoT) &
Applications
Internet of Things (IoT) has gained immense interest for 
applications in smart agriculture, transportation, environment 
monitoring, healthcare, and smart wearable, Industrial IoT, 
and many other applications. Sensors are the key components 
to communicate with surroundings, which have to be both 
highly sensitive and selective as well. On the other hand, the 
data collected from sensors have to be analyzed and used for
making Processes and Systems smarter. IoT and applications 
area is a highly multidisciplinary area involving various areas of 
Materials, Devices, Sensors, Circuits, Communication, and Data 
Analytics, and their applications in IoT system development. Inter-
Disciplinary Research Platform (IDRP) on the Internet of Things 
(IoT) & Applications was created to work with a holistic approach 
for seamless integration of technologies.
The IDRP on IoT & Applications will facilitate research and 
development in multiple areas including Industry 4.0, Health, 
Agriculture, Infrastructure, Transportation, Environmental 
Monitoring, and Infrastructure Safety encompassing a complete 
ecosystem for simulation, design, development, characterization,
and testing. R&D ecosystem of Jodhpur which includes IITJ, 
AIIMS, NLU, and Police University, can be an ideal combination 
for innovation in various areas of AIoT, such as in environment, 
healthcare, and cybersecurity.
138
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

The IDRP on IoT & Applications offers Ph.D. in a wide range of 
emerging and challenging interdisciplinary research areas such 
as AIoT, Industry 4.0, Smart City, Smart Infrastructure, Smart 
Grid, Environment Monitoring, Intelligent Transportation, etc. 
This unique interdisciplinary Ph.D. program addresses the gap 
between real-life challenges and Technology by using a holistic 
approach.
The Ph.D. students are trained to conduct high-quality cutting-
edge research demonstrated through tangible deliverables and 
to publish in top-ranking journals and conferences. Specially-
designed courses on technical communication and Intellectual
Property Rights enable students in quality expression as well as 
patent landscaping for potential IP and business translation of 
their work. Weekly colloquium enables the students to keep open 
avenues of sharing ideas and learning from peers. Students have 
round-the-clock access to high-end research and computational 
facilities, and also have the opportunity of one additional year 
of fellowship after thesis submission to engage in translational 
and entrepreneurial initiatives arising out of their Ph.D. work. 
On graduation, the doctoral students are trained in critical 
thinking, research, development, operations, and management 
of emerging technological challenges for both industry and 
academia.
139
Annual Report 2020_21

Department of Electrical Engineering
1.	
Dr. Kamaljit Rangra, Coordinator
2.	
Dr. Aashish Mathur, Convenor
3.	
Dr. Abdul Gafoor Shaik
4.	
Dr. Ajay Agarwal
5.	
Dr. Amandeep Kaur
6.	
Dr. Anil Kumar Tiwari
7.	
Dr. Arpit Khandelwal
8.	
Dr. Arun Kumar Singh
9.	
Dr. Harshit Agarwal
10. Dr. Himanshu Kumar
11. Dr. Mahesh Kumar
12. Dr. Malyala Pavana Ravi Sai Kiran
13. Dr. Nitin Bhatia
14. Dr. Saakshi Dhanekar
15. Dr. Sandeep Kumar Yadav
16. Dr. Shree Prakash Tiwari
17. Dr. Soumava Mukherjee
Department of Computer Science & 
Engineering
18. Dr. Debasis Das
19. Dr. Deepak Mishra
20. Dr. Dip Sankar Banerjee
21. Dr. Ravi Bhandari
22. Dr. Suchetana Chakraborty
23. Dr. Sumit Kalra
Department of Civil & Infrastructure 
Engineering
24. Dr. Ranju Mohan
Department of Mechanical Engineering
25. Dr. Amrita Puri
26. Dr. Anand Krishnan Plappally
27. Dr. Ankur Gupta
28. Dr. Barun Pratiher
29. Dr. Hardik Kothadia
30. Dr. Shrutidhara Sarma
Department of Bioscience & 
Bioengineering
31. Dr. Meenu Chhabra
Department of Metallurgical and 
Materials Engineering
32. Dr. Anirban Ghosh
Department of Physics
33. Dr. Ambesh Dixit
Department of Chemistry
34. Dr. Ritu Gupta
School of Management and 
Entrepreneurship
35. Dr. Yerasani Sinjana
Project Proposals Approved
1.	
Inventorization of the wildlife towards a sustainable 
campus
Point of Contact: Suchetana Chakraborty
Team Members: Arun Kumar Singh, Aashish Mathur, Malyala 
Pavana Ravi Sai Kiran, Debasis Das, Rajendra Nagar, Pradeep 
K. Tewari, Preeti Tiwari , Anand K Plappally
Approximate Budget: 2 Lakhs
Collaborating Organizations: ZSI and BSI
Funding Agency: CETSD, IIT Jodhpur
2.	
An endoscopic camera system
Point of Contact: Amandeep
Team Members: Amandeep, Deepak
Approximate Budget: 50 Lakhs
Funding Agency: BIRAC
3.	
Human Perception driven on-chip compression for power 
efficient CMOS image sensors
Point of Contact: Amandeep
Team Members: Amandeep, Deepak
Approved Budget: 15 Lakhs
Funding Agency: MSME
The following Faculty Members from different departments are associated with this IDRP.
140
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl. No. Title Speaker Date
1 Netradyne - AI and IoT Mr. Teja Gudena, Senior Vice President, Netradyne 28.5.2021
2 Cellular Internet of Things Dr. Abhinav Kumar, IIT Hyderabad 3.7.2021
3 5G Wireless Communication & Technologies Prof. Manav Bhatnagar, IIT Delhi 25.3.2021
4 VLSI Webinar on SoC Design & Verification by
Maven Silicon Mr. Sivakumar P R, Founder and CEO, Marvel
Silicon 25.4.2021
5 Industry Webinar on Semiconductor
Technologies – Enabling the Connected World Dr. Usha Gogineni, Director for EDA (Electronic
Design Automation) in AMS Semiconductors,
Hyderabad 6.5.2021
Sl. No. Name of the Student Supervisors
1. Sneha Prasad Dr. Sumit Kalra and Dr. Arpit Khandelwal
2.
3. Preeti Jain
Manpreet Singh Dr. Debasis Das and Dr. Arpit Khandelwal
Dr. Saakshi Dhanekar and Dr. Sinjana Yerasani
4. Amritesh Kumar Dr. Debasis Das and Dr. Nitin Bhatia
5. Chetali Yadav Dr. Dip Sankar Banerjee and Dr. Kamaljit Rangra
Project Proposals Submitted
1.	
Point-of-use and in-line water quality sensors for smart 
water management: Detection of coliforms, fluoride and 
Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD)
Point of Contact: Meenu Chhabra
Team Members: Meenu Chhabra, Raviraj Vankayala, Arpit 
Khandelwal, Ravi Bhandari, Saakshi Dhanekar, Kamaljit 
Rangra
Approximate Budget: 197.96 Lakhs
Funding Agency: Jal Jeevan Mission
2.	
Artificial Intelligence Of Things (AIOT) Based Monitoring 
of Wild-life (AIM Wild-life) for Sustainability Acceleration in 
Desert Areas
Point of Contact: Suchetana Chakraborty
Team Members: Arun Kumar Singh, Aashish Mathur,Malyala 
Pavana Ravi Sai Kiran, Debasis Das, Rajendra Nagar, Pradeep 
K. Tewari, Preeti Tiwari , Anand K Plappally
Approximate Budget: 318.4515 Lakhs
Collaborating Organizations: ZSI and BSI
Funding Agency: IBM Sustainability Accelerator Program
3.	
Non-invasive monitoring devices
Point of Contact: Dip Sankar
Team Members: Dip Sankar, Anil Tiwari
Approximate Budget: 84 Lakhs
Funding Agency: SERB CRG
4.	
Developing an AI based model for predicting a patient’s risk 
propensity for moving towards cytokine storm and develop 
a nanotechnology-based patch for homebound patients 
that provide early warning for cytokine storm
Point of Contact: Ajay Agarwal
Team Members: Sumit Kalra, Saakshi Dhanekar, Dr. Ravindra 
Shukla (AIIMS Jodhpur), Dr. Avik Ghose & Sh. Sanjay 
Kimbahune (both from TCS).
Approximate Budget: 107.856 Lakhs
Funding Agency: TCS
Other Activities
The following technology nodes have been procured to initiate 
fabless design activity as per one of the goals under mission 1 of 
the IoT-IDRP vision document.
UMC 65nm, UMC 40 nm and UMC 28nm.
List of Webinars Conducted
List of Students
The following is the list of PhD students admitted to the IDRP:
141
Annual Report 2020_21

IDRP - Quantum Information and
Computation (QIC)
The Quantum Information and Computation - Interdisciplinary 
research platform (IDRP) at IIT Jodhpur is working towards 
analyzing classical and quantum correlations from the 
perspective of a practical interface between quantum optics and 
quantum information processing. Such correlations occupy a 
central position in the quest for understanding and harvesting 
the power of quantum mechanics and fundamentals of quantum
information processing. As a group, we are addressing some of 
the key issues in characterizing multiqubit entanglement. From 
the applications perspective, the spectrum includes, but is not 
limited to, quantum key distribution, quantum dense coding, 
quantum teleportation, quantum cryptography, quantum game 
theory and quantum secure communication.
142
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

For a practical implementation of any quantum information 
task, it is important to consider the role of noise on the chosen 
task. The group is interested in the systematic study of quantum 
information and computation in realistic scenarios, including 
the effect of ambient noise, using ideas and techniques of Open 
Quantum Systems. At present, following faculty members are 
involved in the group.
Department of Physics
1.	
Dr. Subhashish Banerjee, Coordinator
2.	
Dr. V. Narayanan
Department of Chemistry
3.	
Dr. Atul Kumar
Department of Mathematics
4.	
Dr. Kiran K. Hiremath
5.	
Dr. Vivek Vijay
Department of Mechanical Engineering
6.	
Dr. B. Ravindra
Department of Electrical Engineering
7.	
Dr. Harshit Agarwal
Department of Computer Science & 
Electrical Engineering
8.	
Dr. Suman Kundu
9.	
Dr. Debasis Das
10. Dr. Somitra Kumar
Department of Humanities & Social 
Sciences
11. Dr. K. J. George
Over the last century, Quantum Mechanics has emerged as a 
fundamental ingredient for understanding various facets of 
nature such as atomic and subatomic physics, quantum optics 
and a plethora of phenomena in condensed matter physics. 
Modern developments in computing could be said to have 
started from the work of Alan Turing, while information theory
was put on the pedestal of modern science by the efforts of 
Claude Shannon. The amalgamation of quantum physics with 
computing and information theory could be historically traced 
from the works of EPR (Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen), followed 
by that of John Bell and culminating in efforts made by Charles 
Bennett. This was further cemented by the efforts of William 
Wootters. Experimental developments over the last few decades 
have brought the subject of quantum information to the 
threshold of technology development.
The interdisciplinary research group in Quantum Information 
and Computation (QIC) at IIT Jodhpur is envisioned to lead us 
towards establishing a convergence between diverse academic 
spaces. In this interdisciplinary joint collaboration, we propose 
to study quantum correlations in nonclassical states from the 
perspective of a practical interface between quantum optics 
and quantum information processing. Such correlations 
occupy a central position in the quest for understanding and 
harvesting the power of quantum mechanics and fundamentals 
of quantum information processing. Another dimension would 
be to analyze and characterize multiqubit entangled states for 
establishing shared communication networks among multiple 
users; one of the key issues in applications such as quantum key 
distribution, quantum dense coding, quantum teleportation, 
quantum cryptography, quantum game theory and quantum 
secure communication.
The intricacy of the problem increases even further when one 
considers real conditions, i.e., the interaction between the 
principal system and environment, leading to decoherence, 
which adversely impacts the efficiency of quantum systems; in 
general. In fact, for a practical implementation of any quantum 
information task, it is important to consider the role of noise on 
the chosen task. The systematic study of quantum mechanics 
in realistic scenarios, including the effect of ambient noise, can 
be made by using ideas and techniques of Open Quantum 
Systems. In the proposed collaboration, we will make systematic 
use of Open Quantum Systems to study various facets of 
quantum information and computation, including quantum 
cryptographic tasks.
Presently the IDRP is offering Ph.D. program in Quantum 
Information & Computation.
143
Annual Report 2020_21

IDRP - Robotics & Mobility 
Systems (RMS)
The Inter-Disciplinary Research Platform (IDRP) on Robotics and 
Mobility Systems (RMS) is a multi-disciplinary initiative with 
focus on solving open research problems requiring an integrated 
approach through the fusion of knowledge from multiple fields.
The vision of IDRP on RMS is:
Advance the Interdisciplinary fields of robotics and mobility 
systems through development in modelling, control, multimodal 
perception, communication, AI/ML, and energy management 
systems to solve technological challenges in civil and military 
sectors to develop state-of-the-art applications.
The missions of IDRP on RMS are:
■
Develop an ecosystem to promote research and technology 
development in ground-, air- and water-based mobile
robots, and collaborative robots for defence and civilian 
applications.
■
To pursue indigenous research to cultivate technological 
solutions addressing growing demands in electric vehicles, 
autonomous vehicles, and drones.
■
To produce professionals with in-depth knowledge and 
analytical and experimental research skills to handle 
Robotics and Mobility Systems problems.
■
To generate adequate financial resources by establishing 
collaboration with industries, R & D organisations, and the 
government.
The following schematics represent the scope and application 
areas of the IDRP on RMS.
Scope of RMS-IDRP
144
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

The following Faculty Members from different Departments in 
the Institute are associated with this IDRP, in different areas:
Computer Vision and Haptics
Department of Computer Science & 
Engineering
1.	
Dr. Anand Mishra
2.	
Dr. Santanu Chaudhury
Department of Electrical Engineering
3.	
Dr. Amit Bhardwaj
4.	
Dr. Himanshu Kumar
5.	
Dr. Rajendra Nagar
6.	
Dr. Manish Narwaria
Robotics and Control
Department of Mechanical Engineering
7.	
Dr. Jayant Kumar Mohanta
8.	
Dr. Suril V. Shah, Coordinator
Department of Electrical Engineering
9.	
Dr. Anoop Jain
10. Dr. Deepakkumar M. Fulwani
11. Dr. Niladri Sekhar Tripathy
Dynamics, Design and Manufacturing
Department of Mechanical Engineering
13. Dr. Kaushal A. Desai
14. Dr. Nipun Arora
Communication
Department of Electrical Engineering
15. Dr. Aashish Mathur
16. Dr. Arpit Khandelwal
The Ph.D. program offered by the IDRP on RMS is one of the 
few nationwide programs where students can earn a doctorate 
in Robotics/Mobility Systems. The program is inherently 
interdisciplinary, bringing together areas of research that would 
otherwise be spread across different departments or separate 
universities.
The Thematic Areas of Research in this IDRP are:
■
Robotics: Research in Robotics aimed at overcoming 
challenges in perception, manipulation, navigation in 
unstructured and unknown dynamic environments with 
focus on application to defense, medical, manufacturing 
and social domains.
■
Mobility Systems: Research in Mobility Systems aimed 
at addressing challenges of future mobility in e-drive, 
autonomous driving, communication and control from the 
perspective of cyber-physical systems.
Application Areas
145
Annual Report 2020_21

IDRP - Smart Health Care (SHC)
The Smart Health Care IDRP aspires to create significant scientific 
and technological advancements in the area of Healthcare by 
bringing together a multidisciplinary team of scientists working 
in the interface of Biology, Chemistry, Healthcare & Engineering. 
The research is intended to focus on designing and developing 
sustainable solutions for point-of-care health devices, drug 
discovery, affordable diagnostics, biocompatible implants, and 
remote health care, including telemedicine. The IDRP platform 
is expected to support the development of various eHealth and 
mHealth based solutions for improving the quality of healthcare 
and making it available to large segments of the society.
The major objectives of this IDRP are:
■
Augmenting existing methods for medical research 
using machine learning and artificial intelligence based 
approaches.
■
Designing new and optimizing existing point-of-care health 
devices.
■
Identifying novel methods for early diagnosis and 
personalized therapeutics.
■
Creating a platform to use various electronic, mechanical, 
and biosensors for improving the remote health care 
facilities.
■
Implementing translational outcome oriented various 
academic and research programs such as Biodesign, 
Medical Technology (Masters, PhD, and Master-PhD Jointly 
with AIIMS), AI and Ayush, PhD in Smart healthcare, and UG 
minor in Smart Healthcare.
■
Establishing start-ups and supporting entrepreneurs in 
the domain of smart healthcare through Bionest, Med 
Tech Park, Jodhpur City Knowledge and Innovation cluster 
(JCKIC).
■
Initiating a comprehensive research program to harvest the 
true potential of desert ecosystems.
The following schematic represents the key focus areas of 
research in the IDRP on Smart Health Care.
146
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Department of Bioscience & 
Bioengineering
1.	
Dr. Meenu Chhabra, Coordinator
2.	
Dr. Indranil Banerjee
3.	
Dr. Neeraj Jain
4.	
Dr. Pankaj Yadav
5.	
Dr. Raviraj Vankayala
6.	
Dr. Sudipta Bhattacharyya
7.	
Dr. Surajit Ghosh
8.	
Dr. Sushmita Jha
9.	
Dr. Sushmita Paul
Department of Computer Science & 
Engineering
10. Dr. Deepak Mishra
11. Dr. Dip Sankar Banerji
12. Dr. Santanu Chaudhury
13. Dr. Suchetna Chakraborty
14. Dr. Sumit Kalra
Department of Electrical Engineering
15. Dr. Anil Kumar Tiwari
16. Dr. Kamaljit Rangra
17. Dr. Saakshi Dhanekar
Department of Mechanical Engineering
18. Dr. Kaushalkumar A. Desai
19. Dr. Suril Vijaykumar Shah
Department of Metallurgical & 
Materials Engineering
20. Dr. Abir Bhattacharya
21. Dr. Anirban Ghosh
22. Dr. BP Kashyap
23. Dr. Jaiveer Singh
Department of Physics
25. Dr. Ram Prakash
26. Dr. Sampat Raj Vadera
27. Dr. Somnath Ghosh
Department of Chemical Engineering
28. Dr. Prasenjit Sarkar
School of Management and 
Entrepreneurship
29. Dr. Mayank Kumar
30. Dr. Sankalp Pratap Singh
Medical Technologies Program
IDRP Smart Healthcare in collaboration with AIIMS Jodhpur has 
launched a joint academic program in Medical Technologies. 
The mission of this multi-disciplinary program is to produce 
deep-tech innovators in the field of Medical Technologies
Origin of the program
The program was envisioned to address the growing Need 
for innovations to meet growing challenges in healthcare 
and to keep abreast of the Fast pace of growth in healthcare 
technologies.
The following Faculty Members from different Departments are associated with this IDRP.
147
Annual Report 2020_21

The key areas that have been identified by AIIMS Jodhpur 
and IIT Jodhpur include:
■
Diagnostics
■
Therapeutics
■
Artificial implants and Medical devices
■
AI for Healthcare
Salient features of the program
1.	
First program in India that provides an opportunity to the 
medical professionals and engineers to learn and share 
knowledge under a trans-disciplinary academic umbrella.
2.	
The program is designed to cater to the emerging needs 
of innovation and improvisation in the field of healthcare 
technologies.
3.	
Unique opportunity for the students to work under the 
joint guidance of a faculty member of AIIMS, Jodhpur 
and IIT Jodhpur in the emerging areas of healthcare 
technologies.
4.	
State of the art research infrastructure of AIIMS, Jodhpur 
and IIT Jodhpur for research and innovation.
5.	
The program offers unique combinations of core subjects, 
flexible electives and a year and half long innovation and 
entrepreneurship oriented research project. Students 
will have the flexibility to pursue academic and research 
interests.
6.	
The students will be encouraged to compete for different 
fellowships and grants offered by the institute and other 
extramural funding agencies.
7.	
The program aims to nurture entrepreneurship skills 
leading to the acquisition/generation of Intellectual 
Property by providing business incubation facilities along 
with seed-finance to students on a competitive basis.
148
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Technology development and transfers
1. Dr Ram Prakash led a project for development of an 
Advanced Photocatalytic Oxidation Sterilization System 
based on UV-light and metal oxide nanoparticles catalyst 
to treat N95 Filtering Face-mask Respirators for reuse. 
The project had significant contributions from Dr Deepak 
Fulwani, Dr Ambesh Dixit, Dr Ankur Gupta and Dr Shankar
Manoharan and their associated students.The developed 
system was tested by AIIMS, Jodhpur and can easily 
disinfect around two hundred N95 FFR in a single day. The 
technical know-how was transferred to eight industries and 
one NGO during May-June, 2020.
149
Annual Report 2020_21

Fig.3 IITJ’s APCO Sterilization System for FFRs
Fig. 4. APCOC system; Technology know-how transferred successfully
2. Dr Ram Prakash led a project for development of an 
Advanced Photocatalytic Oxidation Conveyor System 
named as ‘APCOC’ for sterilization of surfaces, such as 
food packets, books, mobile phones, laptops, carry bags, 
courier bundles, etc. This technology can also be used on
some of the thick peel food items, leather items, during 
the packaging of herbs and seeds, etc. and may reduce 
the number of complete washdowns required during 
processing, thereby saving resources, such as water, 
chemicals, and energy costs.
This APCOC system mitigates cross-contamination concerns 
and is able to sterilize items via a dry process even in the 
shadow regions. The technical know-how of this technology 
was transferred to M/s Potre Automation Pvt. Ltd. Noida on
27th January, 2021 for its mass production. The project had 
significant contributions from Dr Deepak Fulwani, Dr Ambesh 
Dixit, Dr Ankur Gupta, Dr Neha Jain and their associated 
students.
150
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

It is the age of the Artificial Intelligence (AI) revolution. 
Computers today can perform many tasks which until recently, 
could only be done by people. A contemporary machine vision 
system could identify faces, even matching them to specific 
identities, and many of the objects in the scene. However, unlike 
a human being, in most of the cases it will fail to interpret and 
explain what is happening in an image. It is not really known 
what understanding an image by a human brain means. We 
do not know how to engineer a system which can possess 
common sense, can flexibly adapt to new situations, and can 
deal effectively with uncertainty while planning like a normal 
human being. To build next-generation AI systems, there is a 
need to understand the algorithms used by the brain and the 
hardware needed to run these algorithms. Current focus on the 
engineering of intelligence must be complemented by scientific 
investigations of natural intelligence. The Interdisciplinary 
Research Platform (IDRP) on Science of Intelligence aims to 
address the core questions about intelligence – its nature, how 
it is manifested in the brain, and how it could be implemented 
in machines.
Currently a Ph.D. program in Science of Intelligence (SoI) is 
being offered by the IDRP. The following Faculty Members from 
different Departments are associated with the IDRP.
1.	
Professor Santanu Chaudhury, Mentor
Department of Humanities and Social 
Sciences
2.	
Dr. Ankita Sharma, Coordinator
3.	
Dr. Hari Narayanan
Department of Computer Science & 
Engineering
4.	
Dr. Mayank Vatsa
5.	
Dr. Richa Singh
6.	
Dr. Romi Banerjee
7.	
Dr. Sumit Kalra
IDRP - Science of Intelligence 
(SoI)
151
Annual Report 2020_21

Department of Electrical Engineering
8.	
Dr. Anil Kumar Tiwari
9.	
Dr. Rajlaxmi Chouhan
Department of Bioscience & 
Bioengineering
10. Prof. Neeraj Jain
11. Dr. Sushmita Jha
12. Dr. Sushmita Paul
Science of Intelligence is a multifaceted approach to understand 
human intelligence and machine cognition. The interdisciplinary 
research group in the area of Science of Intelligence aims to 
explore research questions and social applications of cognitive 
computing and socio-cognitive behaviors. The objective is to 
develop data-driven models using machine learning, artificial 
intelligence, and deep learning to understand the areas of (but 
not limited to):
■
Adult cognitive development,
■
Emotional intelligence and mental addiction and the 
possibility of technological intervention,
■
Multimodal perception,
■
Neural plasticity and cognitive compensation,
■
Implication in developmental and geriatric disorders, and
■
Biomarker discovery for cognitive disorders.
The following webinar was organized by IDRP Science of 
Intelligence during the FY 2020-21.
■
Webinar on ‘Investigating the role of low-level visual 
features in behaviourally-relevant face categorization’ by 
Dr. Bhuvanesh Awasthi, Cognitive Scientist, Senior Research 
Fellow, Faculty of Health and Medical Science, University of 
Copenhagen, Denmark. Webinar was conducted on 26 May 
2020.
The following project proposals are submitted for external 
funding by SOI faculty members during the FY 2020-21.
1.	
A few group members have submitted a multi-centric 
proposal to Cognitive Science Research Initiative (DST). 
The project is titled, “Development of multiple cues driven 
model of healthy cognitive aging and its application for 
adaptive user interface design”
. The Project group includes 
Prof. Neeraj Jain (project coordinator), Prof. Santanu 
Chaudhury (Project PI), Dr. Ankita Sharma, Dr. Suman 
Dhaka, Dr. Sumit Kalra, Dr. Romi Banerjee (Project Co-PI) 
from IIT Jodhpur; Dr. Dipanjan Roy (Project PI from NBRC), 
Dr. Tapan Gandhi (Project PI from IIT Delhi), and Dr. Amrita 
Basu (Project PI from Jadavpur University).
2.	
A group project was Submitted to DST CSRI by Dr. Hari 
Narayanan V., Dr. Suman Dhaka, Dr. Romi Banerjee. Project 
Title: A study on the neurophysiological correlates of 
habituation and induced curiosity.
3.	
A multicentric project entitled, “AI-based tools for early 
diagnosis, classification, and prognosis of Dementia 
utilizing EEG and Mu-social cognition hypothesis” is 
submitted to DBT. The research group includes Prof. Neeraj 
Jain (project coordinator), Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Dr. 
Ankita Sharma (Project PI), Dr. Suman Dhaka, Dr. Sumit Kalra 
(Project Co-PI) from IIT Jodhpur; Dr. Dipanjan Roy (Project 
PI from NBRC), Prof. Samhita Panda (Project PI from AIIMS 
Jodhpur), Dr. Sarbesh Tiwari and Dr. Tanu Gupta (Project Co-
PI from AIIMS Jodhpur).
152
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

IDRP - Space Science & 
Technologies (SST)
The Inter Disciplinary Research Platform on Space Technologies 
at IIT Jodhpur offers a Ph.D. Program in Space Technologies. 
Space Science and Technology (SST) is an Interdisciplinary 
program emphasizing on (i) the fundamental aspects of 
sciences in expanding our knowledge of the Universe and (ii) 
the realization of end product meeting some of the needs for 
Space Technology. The Ph.D. program in Space Science and 
Technology at IIT Jodhpur comprises both the science as well as 
engineering/technology components and offers an opportunity 
to explore careers in fundamental as well as Space worthy 
interdisciplinary research.
Scope and objectives of the program
The program will offer fundamental training to the PhD students 
in respective fields. The fundamental research will include 
the exploration of the Universe (Space physics, chemistry and 
biology). Further, the program provides opportunity towards 
technological developments realizing the transition of basic 
research into Space related technologies.
Salient features of the program
IIT Jodhpur has highly qualified and experienced faculty with a 
very wide research background in different domains of Science 
and Technology. The program will provide an opportunity to 
work on highly demanding and technologically challenging 
research problems in Space Science and Technology (SST) 
covering fundamental aspects such as exploring the Universe 
and applied aspects such as development of functional 
materials to the integrated devices, secured communications 
and other related Space applications adopting a system 
approach. The space being so vast and varied with an 
almost infinite number of stellar objects and perhaps more 
unknown than known, offers huge opportunities to carry out 
fundamental research so as to develop a better understanding 
of the Universe. Further, space also offers a wide range of 
opportunities for its exploitation for a number of technological 
applications such as remote sensing using sensors operating 
over a range of wavelength regions including visible, 
infrared, microwave, etc. It comprises both the science as 
well as engineering/technology components. The proposed 
interdisciplinary research program on Space Science and 
Technology will be a collective multi-disciplinary effort to 
address key scientific and engineering issues in both exploring 
as well exploiting the space.
153
Annual Report 2020_21

The following Faculty Members from different Departments 
are associated with this IDRP.
Department of Physics
1.	
Dr. Sampat Raj Vadera, Coordinator
2.	
Dr. Reetanjali Moharana
Department of Chemical Engineering
3.	
Dr. Angan Sengupta
4.	
Dr. Prashant Kumar Gupta
5.	
Dr. Nirmalya Bachhar
Department of Electrical Engineering
6.	
Dr. Anoop Jain
7.	
Dr. Arun Kumar Singh
8.	
Dr. Mahesh Kumar
Department of Mechanical Engineering
9.	
Dr. Anand Krishnan Plappally
10. Dr. Ankur Gupta
11. Dr. Arun Kumar, R.
12. Dr. Ashish Pathak
13. Dr. Barun Pratiher
14. Dr. Jayant Kumar Mohanta
15. Dr. Nipun Arora
16. Dr. Rahul Chhibber
17. Dr. Sudipto Mukhopadhyay
School of Management and 
Entrepreneurship
18. Dr. Gaurav Kumar
Activities
Dr. Arun Kumar, R. held technical discussions with ISRO 
Propulsion Research Laboratory (IPRC) on joint research on 
electrostatic spray propulsion for micro satellites. It was decided 
to carry out joint research on fuel storage and handling systems 
for electrostatic spray thrusters.
154
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Centre for Emerging 
Technologies for Sustainable 
Development
The Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable 
Development (CETSD) came into existence on 14 January 2020. 
This Center is headed by Dr. Anand Krishnan Plappally, Associate 
professor, department of Mechanical Engineering. The Center 
works towards attainment of development goals on sustainability 
using emerging technologies. The different functions of the 
center revolve in attaining its vision and mission. These are:
Vision
To be a partner in tapping the potential of emerging technologies 
for creating a sustainable and prosperous future India.
Mission
■
To provide a platform for non-governmental and 
governmental collaborators to work together to apply 
emerging technologies for finding and implementing 
solutions towards achieving SDG targets.
■
To help develop scientific temper societies to understand 
technologies that are sustainable or technologies that are 
using sustainability aspects.
■
To innovate solutions towards challenges in location 
specific problems related to energy use, education, water 
management, infrastructure, traditional livelihood skills, 
and health.
■
To perform applied research in areas such as agriculture, 
environment, healthcare, waste management, pollution, 
livelihood and rural development.
■
To make synergistic policy suggestions to handle issues in 
energy use, agriculture, water management, local pollution 
in a region and its influences on health.
Activities
Collaborations
1.	
MOU was signed between IITJ and NIRD&PR, Hyderabad
2.	
MOA was signed between IITJ and KVIC, Government of 
India. (27 Nov 2020)
3.	
MOA was signed with cGanga, IIT Kanpur (29-01-2021)
External Major Projects
1.	
HEFA CSR – Project titled “ UF Membrane Assisted Sorption 
Based Water Purification Systems in Rural Village Schools 
of Jodhpur District, Rajasthan” with almost Rs. 40 Lakh in 
funding is provisionally approved by HEFA.
2.	
Sirohi – The Aspiration District of Sirohi is close to Jodhpur. 
The development of Sirohi using the technologies created 
and developed by IIT Jodhpur and its collaborators in the 
region is the aim. The project aims at solving the problems 
faced by Sirohi District in areas of Health, Water, Air, Food 
and Governance. The collaborators include IGIB Delhi, AIIMS 
Jodhpur, DMRC Jodhpur, CAZRI and its KVKs, CEERI Pilani, 
Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Rajasthan Ayurved University, 
ICAR-ATARI, Agriculture University, Mandore.
3.	
UBA- RCI- IIT Jodhpur is one of the regional coordinating 
institutes of the MHRD flagship program of Unnat Bharat 
Abhiyan. The Abhiyan is coordinated by IIT Delhi. Presently 
IIT Jodhpur is mentoring 41 institutions in 11 districts across 
Rajasthan.
155
Annual Report 2020_21

Elements Number of Proposals
Total Pre-Approved Stage Implementation Agencies 3
Total Implementation Agencies in Mentoring Stage 3
Scientific Social Responsibility Projects
1.	
Helped in G Filter manufacturing facility development in 
Kerala by Velar Association Kattachira Unit and School of 
Environmental Studies Cochin University, Cochin, Kerala – 
December 2020-March 2021.
2.	
Project of Kitchen Garden Development for Social Justice 
and Empowerment Department, Jodhpur block in its Dr. B 
R Ambedkar Hostels across Jodhpur district was proposed 
on 31 March 2020 and successfully performed during 
the lockdown period. The kitchen garden is now in its 
production phase showcasing optimal vegetable and fruit 
productivity.
3.	
Installation of Ultra filtration for Reuse and Recycle of 
waste water at Jheepasni Village, Pradhyamic Vidyalaya 
is completed as of Oct 27 2020. This was performed in 
guidance of Prof Pradip Tewari, Head, Department of 
Chemical Engineering.
4.	
Survey of the Jojari River by students on March 18-21, 2021 
towards JCKIC water work.
Sirohi Project Updates
1.	
On Feb 10 2021, CETSD was able to collect 144 Silicosis 
patient records from Government Hospital, Sirohi and 
hand it over to Dr Sumit Kalra of CSE department for digital 
archiving and data collection.
ETSD Seminar Series
The emerging technologies and sustainable development 
seminars are flagship programs of CETSD. It chooses the latest 
themes of discussion keeping in mind the latest emerging 
technologies and its application for attaining sustainable 
solutions for engineering the problems of human society in the 
absence of technology. Till date Seminars were conducted on 
topics
Technical Agency of KVIC
Nodal Office of the Technical agency: Prof Kaamya Sharma, Humanities and Social Sciences
156
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Financial Support
■
The Institute had allocated Rs. 5 Lakhs for its working 
2020-2021.
■
A CSR HEFA proposal was submitted in March 2021 
towards ultrafiltration projects in rural schools of 
Jodhpur is provisionally approved towards 2021-2023.
■
UBA-RCI funding has been extended till 2026.
Affiliated Faculty and Staff Members
■
The CETSD has the following faculty members and staff 
members affiliated with the centre.
Mentor
■
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director
Affiliated Faculty
1.	
Krishna Kumar Balaraman
2.	
Pradip K Tewari
3.	
Arun Kumar Singh
4.	
Pradeep Kumar Dammala
5.	
Preeti Tiwari
6.	
Sudipta Das (Joining Date Jan 06 2021)
7.	
Farhat Naz
9.	
Anand Plappally
10. Vivek Vijay
11. Bhanu Prasad (Joining Date Feb 05 2021)
12. Shobhana Singh
13. Sandeep Yadav
14. Ambesh Dixit
15. Gaurav Kumar
16. Alok Ranjan
17. Prashant Kumar Gupta
18. Ankita Sharma
19. Rajlaxmi Chouhan
20. Nitin Bhatia
Staff Colleagues in CETSD UBA Office
■
Bharat Singh Rathore, (on Contract)- CETSD Office Staff
■
Nirmal Gehlot – Project Staff – UBA-RCI
■
Hanwant Singh Rathore- Project Staff- UBA-RCI
Staff Members Associated with UBA 
RCI work in Different Districts
■
Dheerendra
■
Poonamchand Shankla
■
Amit Sharma
■
Rimpesh Katiyar
■
Shashank Chaudhary
■
Narendra Singh
■
Vivek Verma
■
Ishmeet Singh
■
Sandeep Singh
Details of Activities of Faculty 
Members Activities Connected to 
CETSD (UBA, RuTAG)
1.	
Dr Mahesh Kumar from Electrical Engineering was 
inducted into the Unnat Bharat Abhiyan Subject Expert 
Group Core Committee to help in the implementation 
process of the National Education Policy 2020.
2.	
Dr Anand Krishnan Plappally from Mechanical 
Engineering started his second RuTAG project with IIT 
Delhi on Mound Based Sub-surface Irrigation in 2020
3.	
Dr Sumit Kalra presented the IIT Jodhpur Telemedicine 
Portal in March 2021 to the UBA RCI Meeting as a special 
invitee.
157
Annual Report 2020_21

Sl. No. Title UBA PIs Financial Support
(in Lakh) Completed or Ongoing/
Timelines
1 Personal Use facial fit trails of reusable
ceramic respirators being manufactured
at Bhopalgarh for use towards
preventing spread of air borne diseases Anand Plappally, Dr Ravi K R,
Dr. Narayanan V, Dr Kuldeep
Singh (AIIMS Jodhpur)and Dr
Rajendra Nagar o.895 Completed, October
2020
2 Development of low-cost portable
ventilator for COVID 19 patients Dr Mahesh Kumar 1 On-going, 2020-2021
Sl. No. Scheme/ Program Submission Date Initiator Title
1 Coir Vikas Yojana- ASPIRE Scheme of MSME April 24 2020 CETSD Proposal towards setting
a training center for rope
and Geo- textile mat
manufacturing at IIT Jodhpur
2 Khadi Village Industries Commission (KVIC) Nov 26 2020 CETSD IITJ is a Technical Agency,
SFURTI Scheme. MOA
executed
3 Key Resource Centers to Jal Shakti Ministry Dec 16 2020 CETSD EOI for the Empanelment of
IITJ at the Jal Shakti Ministry
4 Centre for Rural Development and Technology
at IITs Dec 27 2020 CETSD Submission of Report of 2020
5 MOA with cGanga Jan 29, 2021 CETSD MOA executed
6 Smart Graded-Water Supply Grid 23 Jan 2021 Dr Shobhana Singh
and Team Submitted
7 Point-of-use and in-line water quality sensors
for smart water management. Detection of
coliforms, fluoride and Biochemical Oxygen
Demand (BOD) 16 Jan 2021 Prof Meenu Chhabra
and Team Submitted
8 Techno-Managerial Action Research in Rural
Drinking Water: Efefctuating Behaviour 22 Jan 2021 Prof Preeti Tiwari and
Team Submitted
9. Pilots and Survey Based Assessment of G filter
in 5 states 14 October 2020 Prof Anand Plappally
and Team Submitted
10. Novel drainage management structures using
sub-surface porous vessels made of Vindhyan
Era rocks and other ceramic ware 21 Jan 2021 Prof Debanjan Guha
Roy and team Submitted
11 UF Membrane Assisted Sorption Based Water
Purification Systems in Rural Village Schools of
Jodhpur District, Rajasthan 17 Feb 2021 Prof Anand Plappally
and Prof Pradip Tewari Submitted
UBA SEG Projects Completed and Ongoing
Under UBAPI- Prof Ananya Debnath, Department of Chemistry
Schemes to which Proposals Submitted in 2020-2021
158
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl. No. Program/ Request for Collaboration Date of Initiation Initiator Remarks
1. Constitution of National Subject
Advisory Committee (NSEAC) for
Unnat Bharat Abhiyan 26, October 2020 UBA NCI, IITD Head CETSD, A member of NSEAC
2. ESRI Nov 18 2020 Head, CETSD Contacted Tanuj Arora, ESRI to start off
discussions
3.
4 India International Science Fest 2020
ICICI RSETI Team visit 22ndto 25th
December, 2020
4 Jan 2021 Anand Plappally
Director/ Office of
Infrastructure Taught in Jal Pathshala, Water Use, Quality
and Energy for Water
Possible Collaboration Thoughts were
exchanges in skill development and
entrepreneurship
5 BRICS Consortium for Geography and
Geodesy 12 Jan 2021 Director, IITJ Expression of Interest towards joining
BRICs consortium
6. Jodhpur Industry Association Visit 25 Jan 2021 Prof Pradip Tewari Meeting of the JCKIC water Team with JIA
members at Basni Industrial Area
7. Letter from Gov. Sen Sec. School,
Rudiya for UF installation 9 March 2021 Prof Pradip Tewari The installation of the UF filter was
completed in March 2021.
8. Letter from Semra Bujurg Village,
Uttar Pradesh 15 March 2021 Director, IITJ Requesting restoration of water wheel at
Sajnam River, in Semra Bujurg village, Bar
block, Lalitpur Uttar Pradesh.
Programs and Collaboration
159
Annual Report 2020_21

Centre for Technology 
Foresight and Policy
The Center for Technology Foresight and Policy (CTFP) came into 
existence on 14 January 2020. This Center is headed by 
Dr. Deepak M. Fulwani, Associate Professor, Department of 
Electrical Engineering.
Under this Center a webinar was organized for the Faculty 
Members of the Institute on IIT Jodhpur: A Strategic Futures View 
by Mr. Randeep Sudan of Founder and CEO Multiverz Pte. Ltd., 
and Ex-IAS.
The center also submitted a joint proposal with the School of 
Management and Entrepreneurship, to the Haryana Government 
for revamping their Science and Technology department.
160
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Technology Innovation and 
Start-up Centre (TISC)
Inauguration of IIT Jodhpur’s 
Incubation and Innovation Centre:
IIT Jodhpur has set up a startup ecosystem, which essentially 
reflects freedom to encourage innovative ideas, R&D intensity, 
industry interaction, IP regime and protection, incentives 
for faculty/students to ideate/innovate, institutional setup 
to handhold entrepreneurs, and to have startup policies, 
equities and investments, networks with other incubators, 
investors, angels and entrepreneurs. Accordingly, IIT Jodhpur 
has established a few dedicated section-8 companies in the 
campus including IITJ Technology Innovation and Start-up 
Center (TISC), IIT Jodhpur Technology Park (Tech Park), IITJ 
Technology Innovation Hub iHub Drishti, and Jodhpur City
Knowledge Innovation Cluster (JCKIC) for this purpose. Exclusive 
entrepreneurship programs and the School of Management 
& Entrepreneurship (SME) are part of this ecosystem. Among 
many initiatives to promote entrepreneurship leveraging the 
academic knowledge/resources, during the current financial 
year, IITJ’s Incubation and Innovation Centre became functional 
in the campus. The Centre was inaugurated online on the 16th 
October 2020 by the Chief Guest, Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’
, 
Hon’ble Union Shiksha Mantri, Government of India, in the august 
presence of Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Hon’ble Union Jal 
Shakti Mantri, Shri. Sanjay Dhotre, Hon’ble Minister of State for 
Education, Government of India, and Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, 
Director, IIT Jodhpur.
Online inauguration of the Incubation and Innovation Centre
161
Annual Report 2020_21

Distinguished dignitaries present during the inauguration
The current focus is on Deep Tech 
to promote startups/programs 
founded on a scientific discovery 
or meaningful engineering 
innovation to solve the big 
issues that really affect the world 
around through transformative 
technologies. The Deep Tech 
domains include: New materials, 
especially Materials of Intelligence, 
Artificial Intelligence, Healthcare 
including Precision Medicine & 
Multi-omics, Cyber-security, Digital 
economy, Robotics, Advanced 
Communications, Quantum 
Computing, etc. Possible fields 
for Deep Tech applications 
include: Agriculture, Food 
(including processing, analytics 
and computing), Life sciences, 
Aerospace, Energy, Defence, etc. 
The Centre nurtures incubation 
projects supported by the BIRAC, 
Ministry of MSME and MeitY, 
Government of India, besides 
administering a number of 
entrepreneurship related activities 
encompassing a multitude 
programs/stakeholders in the 
neighborhood.
Main Building of Incubation & Innovation Centre, IIT Jodhpur
162
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sr.
No. Name Email/Company
Name Student/MSME/
Faculty Project/Product title Status
1. Dr. Suresh
Dahiya PG201282009@iitj.ac.in
Metergy Pvt. Ltd. Student-led startup Generic IOT Infrastructure (GIOTI) Feb 2020 to April
2021
2. Dr. Saakshi
Dhanekar saakshi@iitj.ac.in Faculty under BIRAC
BIG project Indigenous alcohol breath analyzer
for prevention of drink and driving
case Incubating since Feb
2020
3. Prof. Mayank
Vatsa mvatsa@iitj.ac.in
DependableVision.AI Student- and Faculty-
led startup DependableVision.AI Incubating since
May 2020
4. Dr. Neelam
Rathore neelam19rathore@
gmail.com
Greenoearth Pvt. Ltd. IIT Alumni Safe Sanitization: Easy production
of difefrent concentrations of
hypochlorous acid from the home-
based ingredients, water, and
electricity Incubating since
May 2021
5. Dr. Amandeep
Kaur amandeepkaur@iitj.
ac.in Faculty under BIRAC
BIG project An endoscopic camera system Approved by BIRAC
6. Mr. Vigyan
Gadodia gvigyan@gmail.com Student along with
faculty advisor Dr. Ram
Prakash Design and development of small-
scale milk disinfection system using
mercury-free plasma (MFP) UV
Lamp technology Incubating since
April 2021
7. Mr. S.
Subburayalu subburayalu@iitj.ac.in Student along with
faculty advisor Dr Ravi
K.R. Development of Transparent,
Durable superhydrophobic-coating
for self-cleaning of Endoscope Incubating since
April 2021
8. Mr. Bibhudutta
Satapathy satapathy.1@iitj.ac.in Student along with
faculty advisor Dr
Deepak Mishra A Wellness Device for Real-time
Non-contact Blood Oxygen
Saturation Measurements Incubating since
April 2021
9. Mr. Varun
Kumar kumar.129@iitj.ac.in Student along with
faculty advisor Dr
Amandeep Kaur Human perception driven on-chip
compression for power-efficient
CMOS image sensors Incubating since
April 2021
IIT Jodhpur has received financial support of Rs. 4.45 crores for 
the first BioNEST Bioincubator in Rajasthan on 8th February, 
2021, and accordingly a TISC, IIT Jodhpur Bioincubator setup 
is initiated. This incubator will primarily focus on healthcare 
technologies. It will support team formation and generation 
of technologies that can reduce dependence on the import 
of medical devices, and for the development of smart sensors 
point-of-care diagnostic devices, implants, therapeutic devices, 
imaging protocols to name a few. It will primarily promote/
support entrepreneurship in the healthcare/ MedTech/
Agrotech/Pharma segment and allied areas. Further, it will 
augment the translational research capacity leading to (few 
cases):
■
Smart Sensors for early disease diagnosis based on the 
knowledge of existing biomarkers/newly discovered 
biomarkers.
■
Bio-imaging (including smartphone-based imaging) and 
AI-based analysis for early disease diagnosis
■
Miniaturized medical instruments for household use 
particularly for remote/rural population (Eg. Spirometer, 
continuous blood pressure monitoring, etc.)
■
Integrated AI-driven Healthcare Platforms including 
Telemedicine Platform
■
Medical Implants and Surgical Devices
■
Cold Plasma and UV-based appliances for medical 
applications
■
Electronic Nose & Appliances for Breathomics
■
Smart Miniaturized Improved Camera System for Medical 
Applications including endoscopy
■
NIR/Multispectral Imaging-based diagnostic devices
TISC, IIT Jodhpur Bioincubator
Incubatees Status at IITJ TISC
163
Annual Report 2020_21

1.	
Pingala AI Pvt. Ltd. (Prithvi.AI), a provider of seed-stage 
acceleration program designed for budding start-ups in the 
Artificial Intelligence and machine learning arena, signed 
an agreement with IIT Jodhpur Technology Park on the 
5th October 2020 and is setting up AIoT and Industry 4.0 
support system ‘HEEEAL’ (Healthcare, Education, Energy, 
Environment, Agriculture and Livelihood) at the Innovation 
Centre in the unit.
2.	
Johari Digital Healthcare Limited (JDHL), Jodhpur, one 
of the first MDSAP and US FDA certified GMP audited 
manufacturing company in India working on design, 
development, engineering and production of electronic 
healthcare devices to be distributed worldwide, signed 
an agreement with IIT Jodhpur Technology Park on the 
11th November 2020, and is also setting up a Centre of 
Excellence for Medical Technologies at the Innovation 
Centre in the unit powered by JDHL.
3.	
WhizHack Technologies Private Limited signed an MoU 
with IITJ Tech Park and IITJ TISC on the 10th December 
2020 for establishing a Centre of Excellence (CoE) for new 
innovations in Cyber Security, AI, and to encourage and 
promote cooperation for developing jointly branded 
Advocacy, Training programs and Product Development 
in the mentioned areas. WhizHack Technologies is the
first Indian product engineering and human capital 
development company for managing complete value 
chain of secured cyber environment. It was planned to 
start an Advanced Certificate Bootcamp on Cyber Defense 
immediately at IITJ TISC in collaboration with WhizHack 
Technologies Private Limited.
Companies in Tech-Park at IIC:
MoU exchanged between IIT Jodhpur Technology Park and Johari Digital Healthcare Limited (JDHL), Jodhpur for a Centre of 
Excellence in Medical Technologies
164
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

MoU Exchanged between IIT Jodhpur and WhizHack Technologies Private Limited for a Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security and AI
MoU exchanged between IIT Jodhpur and DoIT&C, Govt. of Rajasthan
1.	
An MoU was signed between IIT Jodhpur and MSME 
Technology Centre Bhiwadi on the 24th December 2020, 
which became effective after a program organized in an 
online mode on 28th December 2020 at 11:00 am in the 
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur. The aim is to support students 
with projects/fellowships and Industrial visits at MSME 
Technology Centre Bhiwadi, support R&D projects which 
may be carried out at IIT Jodhpur or at premises of MSME 
Technology Centre Bhiwadi or partly at IIT Jodhpur and 
partly at MSME Technology Centre Bhiwadi, Joint EDP
workshop/seminar/trainings periodically, supporting 
startup, students, upcoming entrepreneurs with incubation 
and technological support, etc.
2.	
An MoU was signed between IITJ TISC and Department 
of Information Technology & Communication (DoIT&C), 
Govt. of Rajasthan on 4th February 2021 to support/
guide/stimulate/promote Entrepreneurial and 
Management Development of Startups by providing an 
integrated platform and by policy formulation, planning, 
implementation and monitoring of Startup Promotions.
Other MoU Signed
165
Annual Report 2020_21

1.	
A webinar was organized on “Business opportunities in 
Structural Health Monitoring and Predictive Maintenance” 
in joint collaboration of IITJ, CII and TISC on 8 August 
2020, which was attended by around 305 participants in 
an online mode. This webinar created a good scope for 
cooperation between CSIR-NML, GE Research, NTPC-NETRA 
and generated similar interest from other agencies as 
well. On the day before (07.08.2020) the Webinar, a virtual 
Industrial Meet was conducted among CII, CSIR-NML, NTPC-
NETRA, GE Research and IITJ. Prof. Santanu Chaudhary, 
Chairman TISC, chaired this meeting. Besides the speakers 
of the Webinar, the meeting was attended by Dr. Indranil 
Chattoraj, Director, CSIR-NML, Mr. AK Das, AGM NTPC, 
Mr. Anjan Das, Executive Director, CII, Ms. Rachna Jindal, 
Director – Emerging Technologies, CII.
2.	
IITJ TISC coordinated start-up idea presentations of the 
institute to the Ministry of MSME, Govt. of India under the 
Scheme “Support for Entrepreneurial and Management 
Development of MSMEs through Incubator” during 7–11 
September 2020.
3.	
Dr. Ram Prakash, Faculty-in-charge, IITJ TISC, participated 
as an expert member in the Ideathon program of DST 
Rajasthan during 8–9 September 2020.
4.	
IITJ TISC offered an online classroom-based professional 
development program entitled ‘Entrepreneurship 
Development Program (EDP)’ in collaboration with the 
Department of Science and Technology, Govt. of Rajasthan 
(DST) for various stakeholders (Faculty members, budding 
entrepreneurs, trainers, policy makers, students etc.) in the 
Medium Small and Micro Enterprises domain (MSME). The 
program was offered twice, once in the month of February 
(15–27 February) and once in the month of March 2021 
(1–13 March). This two-week online program covered topics 
related to: Personality traits of entrepreneurs, Identification 
and training of entrepreneurs, Entrepreneurship Ecosystem, 
Entrepreneurship Development Process, Opportunity 
identification and ideation, Legal aspects and regulations, 
Marketing and Finance management, IPR, Patent, 
copyrights and Trademark, Technology sourcing, Role 
of Incubators and Business Plan development. A total of 
173 candidates (48 Female, 125 Male) registered for the 
program while a total of 104 candidates (22 Female, 82 
Male) attended the program in online mode. Inputs were 
provided in form of online lectures, panel discussions 
and field visits to select MSMEs which were broadcasted 
digitally.
5.	
IIT Jodhpur organized a roadshow at IITJ Technology 
Innovation and Startup Center (TISC) on 22 February 
2021 and the First BioNEST Bioincubator in Rajasthan 
was announced at the eve of Global Bio-India 2021 on 
Digital Platform. The following speakers delivered talks 
on various aspects of entrepreneurship and innovation in 
the Bioscience/MedTech space: Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, 
Director, IIT Jodhpur, Prof. Sampat Raj Vadera, HoD, 
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur, Prof. Vijay Chandru, 
Co-founder and Director at Stand Life Sciences & Adjunct 
faculty at IISc Bangalore, Dr. Chandra Madhavi, Sr. Manager 
(Programmes) BIRAC, DBT, Prof. Kuldip Singh, Dean, AIIMS 
Jodhpur, Mr. Satyendra Johari, Founder and Chairman at 
Johari Digital Healthcare Ltd. A larger community across 
India got benefited.
Activities undertaken at IITJ TISC (during 2020-2021)
166
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Collaborative Activities of TISC 
with JCKIC
Jodhpur City Knowledge and Innovation Cluster project 
has been sanctioned by the Office of the Principal Scientific 
Adviser to the Government of India. This is one of the six 
clusters approved by the Government. The initiative has been 
taken on the recommendation of the Prime Minister’s Science, 
Technology and Innovation Advisory Council (PM-STIAC). 
The objective is to create strong linkages among academic 
institutions, R&D Institutes, National and State research 
laboratories, Government Agencies and Industries of the city of 
Jodhpur. The project was sanctioned on 29 July 2020 with a cost 
of Rs. 949.70 lakhs for a duration of three years.
The main focus of the cluster is to provide a necessary platform 
to create synergy among all the stakeholders to make use 
of available knowledge as well as to develop advanced 
technologies, creative skills, state-of-the-art infrastructure and 
innovative environment in an organized manner so as to ensure 
sustainable and systematic development of city of Jodhpur. The 
cluster will also provide a platform to the young entrepreneurs 
to work on their new and innovative ideas. In the long run, 
the cluster will be a self-sustaining unit. The initial focus of the 
cluster is in the following areas:
(i)	
To provide innovation-driven impetus to healthcare and 
medical technology industry in the city
(ii) To design and implement digital technologies for value 
addition to local handicrafts and handlooms
(iii) To develop and implement a prototype waste water 
management system dealing with pollutions from the 
textile industry
(iv) To roll out an AI-driven initiative for increasing the 
efficiency of traffic and crime management system of the 
city of Jodhpur
(v) To design and develop an integrated real-time data 
management system for the city of Jodhpur, on top of 
forthcoming 5G network.
Progress Achieved: Under Med Tech Vertical, a joint MMT 
program was initiated between IIT and AIIMS Jodhpur, for 
ensuring supply of requisite manpower for innovations and 
entrepreneurship in this area. More than 600 applications were 
received for the Master’s, PhD and Master’s-PhD Dual Degree 
program, and 26 students (from both medical and engineering 
backgrounds) are currently pursuing their studies.
A multi-disciplinary Deep-Tech Biodesign Centre to train, 
nurture and transform clinicians and engineers into the Deep-
Tech innovators in the field of Medical/Health Technology has 
been established. Bio-incubators Nurturing Entrepreneurship 
for Scaling Technologies (BioNEST) has also been established 
as an incubating center to promote India centric affordable 
intelligent healthcare technologies. Under the Craft Vertical, 
a Need Assessment Workshop series, “Crafts, Tourism and the 
Pandemic - Gauging the Current Status” was initiated with 
active participation of NIFT and IIT Jodhpur. The objective was 
to interact with the various Craft Clusters in order to understand 
the challenges being faced by CRAFT industries mainly during 
COVID-19 and especially by unorganized sectors to identify local 
needs and resources that can help understand how to improve 
these communities in the most logical and efficient ways 
possible. Participants included members from various agencies 
(Govt/Private/NGO) like District Industries Center, Panipuri Soft, 
Rupayan Sansthan and handicraft industries & local artisans. The 
following research areas were also identified:
Jodhpur City Knowledge and 
Innovation Cluster (JCKIC)
167
Annual Report 2020_21

a)	
Livelihood Business Incubators
b)	
Enable e-commerce opportunities for craft clusters
c)	
Digital Craft - A Platform for Archiving, Immersive 
Exploration & Experiential Commerce for Crafts of Jodhpur.
Under Waste Water and Environmental Pollution Management 
(WEPM) Vertical, a number of brainstorming sessions and 
webinars were organized which led to the development of the 
following research projects:
(i)	
Establishing a Common Facilities Center for analysis and 
treatment of waste and usage of water
(ii) Smart Graded-Water Supply Grid
(iii) Novel Drainage Management Structures using Sub-Surface 
Porous Vessels made of Vindhyan Era Rocks and other 
Ceramicware
(iv) Point-of-Use and Inline Water Quality Sensors for Smart 
Water management.
(v) Detection of Coliforms, Fluoride, Biochemical Oxygen 
Demand (BOD)
(vi) Techno-Managerial Action Research in Rural Drinking 
Water: Effectuating Behaviour
(vii) Pilots and Survey-based Assessment of G-Filter in 5 States
These projects have been submitted to the funding agencies.
Some of the activities under the project WEPM included the 
installation of a grey water purification unit in the school of 
Jheepasani village with the participation from stakeholders, 
a ‘proof of concept’ subsurface porous vessel drainage 
management experimental unit in Rudiya village, and 
coordination with industries, particularly with reference to 
industry-specific waste and environmental pollution issues.
Under I-Governance Vertical, to improve public service utilities 
in the area of Traffic Management using Video feeds, Social 
Media Analytics for Crime, Transportation planning for Jodhpur 
City and Cyber Crime, the following projects are likely to be 
undertaken in near future:
a)	
Development of a Traffic Modelling and Travel Demand 
Management Framework for Jodhpur City, Rajasthan
b)	
Joint training program on cyber security for the police 
department of Rajasthan with IITJ & Police University
c)	
Cyber Crime Helpline
168
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Cluster Events
Jodhpur City Knowledge and 
Innovation Cluster (JCKIC)
Jodhpur City Knowledge and Innovation Foundation (JCKIF) a Section 8 company has been established to sustain activities 
undertaken by Jodhpur Cluster.
169
Annual Report 2020_21

Webinar on "Waste to Wealth" by Prof. Guruswamy, IIT Bombay (Former Senior Scientist, NCL, Pune) on 20 Jan 2021 (Participation of 
more than 50 delegates from Educational Institutes and Industries)
First Webinar in the series of “National Education Policy 2020” on 11 Nov 2020 by Jodhpur City Knowledge and Innovation Cluster 
(JCKIC)
170
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Kshema Prakash Deputy Librarian
Amardeep Sharma Joint Registrar
Ashok Kumar Khanduri Deputy Registrar
Naresh Joshi Deputy Registrar
Jayita Sarkar Scientific Officer
Anand Padegaonkar Assistant Executive Engineer (Civil)
Gaurav Bhansali Assistant Executive Engineer (Electrical)
Shakti Ranjan Patra Assistant Registrar
Himmat Singh Assistant Registrar
Baikuntha Nath Sahu Assistant Registrar
Prashant Bhardwaj Assistant Registrar
T. Malati Assistant Registrar
Narendra K. Singh Senior Technical Superintendent
Rimpesh Katiyar Senior Technical Superintendent
Ashish Kachchawaha Senior Superintendent
Gaurav Nigam Senior Superintendent
Sandeep Singh Chandel Senior Superintendent
Bharat Pareek Technical Superintendent
Dheerendra Kumar Yadav Technical Superintendent
Poonam Chand Sankhla Technical Superintendent
Rinkesh Kumar Mangal Technical Superintendent
Naresh Chouhan Superintendent
Sharabh Pradhan Superintendent
Amit Kumar Soni Assistant Library & Information Officer
Kamleshkumar J. Patel Assistant Library & Information Officer
Vinay Kumar Assistant Engineer (Electrical)
Ashish Kumar Junior Engineer (Civil)
Amit Kumar Junior Engineer (Electrical)
Laxman Singh Junior Superintendent
Darsh Kumar Khatwani Junior Superintendent
Ashok Gehlot Junior Superintendent
Hanuman Singh Junior Superintendent
Arjun Das Physical Training Instructor
Ram Senior Assistant
Staff Members
The following are the Staff Members engaged in various Offices and Departments of the Institute.

Kaur Virdi Senior Assistant
Srivastava Senior Assistant
. Madhavi Lata Senior Assistant
Singh Ratnu Senior Technical Assistant
Sharma Technical Assistant
Choudhary Technical Assistant
Suthar Technical Assistant
Pandey Technical Assistant
Kushwaha Assistant
Kumar Assistant
Rashmi Dhyani Assistant
Vivek Verma Technical Assistant
Kailash Chander Technical Assistant
Dhavalbhai M. Raiyani Junior Technical Assistant
Naveen Kumar Junior Technical Assistant
Poonam Junior Technical Assistant
Ravi Jangid Junior Technical Assistant
Sampatlal N. Suthar Junior Technical Assistant
Arjun Singh Junior Assistant
Dheeraj Upadhyay Junior Assistant
Ganesh Kumawat Junior Assistant
Ishmeet Singh Junior Assistant
Lalit Mohan Junior Assistant
Mahesh Kumar Meena Junior Assistant
Narayan Dadhich Junior Assistant
Neeraj Kumar Junior Assistant
Ramniwas Dhayal Junior Assistant
Sapna Sankhla Junior Assistant
Shankar Singh Junior Assistant
Shashank Choudhary Junior Assistant
Shyam Sunder Singh Junior Assistant
Suresh Chandra Phulara Junior Assistant
Tilotama Singh Junior Assistant
Robin Singh Kaintura Junior Assistant
Sambaji Junior Assistant
Sunil Kumar Junior Assistant
Deepika Sharma Junior Assistant
Mahendra Singh Meena Junior Assistant
Kalpana Deep Junior Assistant
S. C. Bose Advisor (Academics)
P. G. Basak Advisor (Administration)
S. D. Jatav Audit Officer
Kirity Kumar Roy Advisor (Industry-Academia Interface)
Bhagya Rajeswari S. English Language Instructor
Nivedita Verma English Language Instructor
Divya Kalavala English Language Instructor
Mohit Mathur Manager (Facilities)
Ronika Yadav Medical Officer
Captain Iman Security Officer
172
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

New Initiatives
The Institute has completed more than a decade in its journey 
in nurturing talent and achieving excellence. The institute 
has experienced a significant growth in recent times and by 
2025 the student strength will reach to close to 5000 from 
the current strength of 3255. It is important for a technology 
institute to assess the changing landscape of the technology 
and other relevant factors to shape and tune its strategy to 
contribute significantly and meaningfully. There were several 
factors including New Education Policy, Exponential change in 
technology, changing nature of Work and Job, New Financial 
Model, Expectations from the Society, and, the need for virtual 
mode of education along with the traditional brick and mortar 
model which necessitate the need to expand the current 
Vision and Mission of the institute. Furthermore, high-quality 
education acquires unprecedented importance in improving 
the lives and future of the people on the planet. The arena 
and scope of technological education also have to expand far 
beyond the 20th-century concepts. Technology institutes have 
to increasingly become more and more multi-disciplinary, 
and also contribute more directly to the applications of 
emerging technologies for responding effectively to ever-
changing challenges/opportunities. With this backdrop, 
the institute has crafted its Vision for 2025. Institute vision 
reflects the proposed nature of the institute; it is envisaged 
as a future driven knowledge institute, with emphasis on 
the use of Transformational Technologies/ Interventions 
with a multidisciplinary approach. All Departments, Schools, 
Interdisciplinary Research Platforms (IDRPs) and Centres have 
created their respective vision documents. Vision, mission and 
goals of all these academic units are broadly aligned to the 
Institute Vision. Different academic units of the institute also 
have their respective specific missions and goals based on the 
path they have charted for their future. The comprehensive 
document consisting of the vision of all academic units and
different sections was approved by BoG in March 2021. An of 
Office of Planning & Resource Generation has also been setup to 
facilitate the implementation of this vision through a dedicated 
Vision Coordination Committee. Thus, the institute is working 
in a coordinated and a planned way to realize the Vision on all 
fronts.
The new vision statement of IIT Jodhpur is
“A future-driven institute for nurturing excellence of thought; 
generating, preserving and imparting knowledge; and using 
transformational technologies/interventions with multidisciplinary 
approach for responding to societal challenges and aspirations.”
It has adopted the following as the key mission
(i)	
Move towards a high quality, futuristic educational and 
research ecosystem.
(ii) Develop socially responsible faculty, students and future 
leaders, committed to create a self-reliant India.
IIT Jodhpur has set up goals in the following areas with a 
target to achieve them by 2025: curriculum, pedagogy, research, 
outreach, collaboration, industry connect, financial plan, 
infrastructure, student lifecycle and agile organization.
Aligned with the mission and goals a number of Academic 
initiatives have been implemented
(i) The new UG curriculum provides opportunity for the 
students to tailor their programme based upon their 
interest and capability while remaining anchored in their 
core branch.
(ii) IIT Jodhpur has designed a curriculum to enable students 
to pursue these emerging areas in the broad context of 
their parent disciplines through specialisation or minor area 
certification. A student can also opt for a 5-year B.Tech.-M.
Vision & Strategic Plan
173
Annual Report 2020_21

Tech./MBA Dual degree at the end of 7th semester. This 
year for the first time B,Tech’s have graduated with minor/
specialization area certificates.
(iii) To strengthen research and innovation ecosystem a 
new Innovation oriented programes - Master’s & PhD in 
MedTech has been initiated
(iv) IIT J has started online PG programme with well defined 
campus immersions for facilitating lifelong learning for 
professionals.
To take forward its agenda of innovation driven education 
and exploring newer avenues of fund generation, IIT Jodhpur 
is pursuing several initiatives through newly set up section 8 
companies.
(A) Establishment of IIT Jodhpur 
Marudhara Foundation, a Section 8 
Company
The Institute has established IIT Jodhpur Marudhara Foundation, 
a Section 8 Company of the Institute to:
i.	
encourage, promote and facilitate education and research 
and other activities of the Indian Institute of Technology 
Jodhpur (Institute).
ii.	
encourage dialogue with industries for research and 
consulting projects.
iii. promote interaction amongst the PAN IIT Alumni members 
and the Institute for facilitating academic, industrial and 
entrepreneurial support and services.
iv. establish, construct, equip and maintain or contribute 
towards establishment, equipment and maintenance of 
libraries, laboratories and facilities in the Institute and other 
allied organizations for the promotion and furtherance of 
its objectives.
v.	
subscribe and to become a member of other institutions in 
any part of world having objectives similar to the objectives 
of the Company.
vi. enter into any arrangements/agreements with the 
Government of India or with any State Government or 
other authorities, local municipal, IIT Jodhpur or otherwise 
in pursuance of the objects of this Company and to 
obtain from any such Government or authority all rights, 
concessions and privileges that maybe conducive to the 
objects of the Company.
vii. apply to the Government, public bodies, urban, local, 
municipal, district and other bodies, corporations, 
companies or other persons for and to accept grants 
or money, equipment, land, buildings, donations, gifts,
subscriptions and other assistance with a view to promote 
and further the objects of the Company.
IIT Jodhpur Marudhara Foundation is taking shape and a task 
force comprising of senior strategists of National level were 
constituted to frame the charter of activities towards the set 
goals of the company. The efforts towards crowdfunding and 
CSR Funds from the Industries were also initiated to mobilise 
funds toward developmental activities of the Institute.
(B) Work of the Jodhpur City Knowledge 
and Innovation Cluster (JCKIC)
The Jodhpur City Knowledge and Innovation Cluster (JCKIC) 
has been established under the aegis of the Office of the 
Principal Scientific Adviser, Government of India. The main 
focus of the cluster is to provide a necessary platform to create 
synergy between all the stakeholders to make use of available 
knowledge as well as to develop advanced technologies, 
creative skills, state of the art infrastructure, and innovative 
environment in an organized manner so as to ensure 
sustainable and systematic development of the city of Jodhpur. 
The cluster will work towards the effective intervention of 
knowledge, technology, and innovation for the society at large 
and industry and governance in particular. Further, the cluster 
will provide a platform for young entrepreneurs to work on 
their new and innovative ideas. The cluster at present is looking 
at the following domains: (1) Medical Technologies, (2) Water 
and Environment, (3) I-Governance, (4) CRAFT, (5) Thar DESIGNS 
((Desert EcoSystem Innovations Guided by Nature & Selection), 
and (6) AIoT Fab.
The main focus of the cluster is to provide a necessary platform 
to create synergy between all the stakeholders to make 
use of available knowledge as well as to develop advanced 
technologies, creative skills, state of the art infrastructure and 
innovative environment in an organized manner so as to ensure 
sustainable and systematic development of city of Jodhpur. The 
cluster will work towards effective intervention of knowledge, 
technology and innovation for the society at large and industry 
and governance in particular. Further, the cluster will provide 
a platform to the young entrepreneurs to work on their new 
and innovative ideas. In the long run the cluster is going to be a 
self-sustaining unit. The initial focus of the cluster will be in the 
following areas:
To provide Innovation-driven impetus to Healthcare and 
Medical Technology industry in the city
■
To design and implement digital technologies for value 
addition to local handicrafts and handlooms
■
To develop and implement a prototype wastewater 
management system dealing with pollutions from the
174
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

textile industry
■
To roll out an AI driven initiative for increasing efficiency of 
traffic and crime management system of the city of Jodhpur
■
To design and develop an integrated real time data 
management system for the city of Jodhpur, on top of 
forthcoming 5G network
The cluster is a collaborative network of a large pool of 
institutes dealing with academics (covering different domains 
including science & technology, healthcare, fashion design, 
footwear design, law, police, ayurveda, agriculture, fine arts, 
engineering, social science, humanities, etc.), R&D institutes 
affiliated to all major organizations of the country including 
DRDO, ICAR, ISRO, ISRO, ICMR, Forest Research, etc., and highly 
skill oriented MSMEs having strong elements of innovation and 
entrepreneurship. The Jodhpur region is very rich in handicrafts, 
handloom and traditional art. A large number of industries and 
artisans are engaged in these activities. The cluster will work 
towards exploiting the rich traditional heritage and art existing 
in the city of Jodhpur and around for the betterment of the 
artisans and help them in improving the financial condition. 
Further, the cluster will also aim to preserve the city’s heritage 
and traditional art and take it forward to coming generations, 
however, with value addition. All these features make Jodhpur 
as one of the ideal cities to host a multi-institute platform viz. 
Jodhpur City Knowledge and Innovation Cluster (JCKIC).
The cluster has already started work on different projects that 
hope to directly improve living and working conditions of 
villagers, artisans and craftsmen in Rajasthan through technical 
interventions in medicine, governance, arts and crafts and 
other livelihood projects. On behalf of the cluster, four Need 
Assessment Workshops were conducted with different craft 
clusters to understand and analyze the current condition of 
crafts and livelihood in the region. Workshops were conducted 
with the craftsmen involved in Durry manufacturing and 
printing, Block Printing, Leather Mojari producers and 
handicrafts and handloom producers. Initial connections 
were built with the craftsmen and a road map for further 
interventions was discussed and laid out.
(c) Technology Innovation & Start-up 
Centre
IITJ TISC, the umbrella incubation center of IITJ has also been 
incorporated as Section-8 Company, with a mandate to incubate 
Deep-Tech startups along with the aim of developing a vibrant 
entrepreneurship ecosystem in the institute and the larger 
region in the state of Rajasthan.
IITJ TISC launched its preliminary webpage http://tisc.iitj.ac.in 
in the month of February 2021, with an aim to attract potential 
incubates and launch new programs.
IITJ TISC received the coveted BioNEST grant from Biotechnology 
Industry Research Assistant Council (BIRAC) to set up a Bio 
Incubator which gained the distinction of becoming the first 
instance of a Bio Incubator in the state of Rajasthan.
IITJ TISC has hired its full time CEO and Manager and resumed 
its offline operations with appropriate CoVID-19 protocol in 
the month of October 2021. Furthermore, in the month of 
December 2021, TISC hired a consultant towards managing the 
Corporate Relation/Endowment and Corporate Affairs function, 
with a special focus on reaching out to corporates for CSR funds 
that can be employed towards various activities related to 
promotion of innovation and entrepreneurship
A total of 4 proposals from IIT J received Ministry of Micro, Small 
and Medium Enterprises (MSME) grant during the year and one 
proposal from IIT J received Biotechnology Ignition Grant (BIG) 
during the year. The following resultant projects were incubated 
at TISC:
■
Power efficient CMOS image sensors (MSME Grant)
■
Blood Oxygen Saturation Measurements (MSME Grant)
■
Self-cleaning of Endoscope (MSME Grant)
■
Small-scale Milk Disinfection System (MSME Grant)
■
Endoscopic camera system (BIG Grant)
Among others, the following notable programs related to 
outreach and training aimed at entrepreneurship ecosystem 
development were conducted by TISC:
1.	
In collaboration with the Department of Science and 
Technology, Govt. of Rajasthan TISC offered an online 
classroom based professional development program titled 
‘Entrepreneurship Development Program’ (EDP) for various 
stakeholders (Faculty members, budding entrepreneurs, 
trainers, policy makers, and students etc.) in the Medium 
Small and Micro Enterprises domain (MSME). This two-
week online program was offered twice, once in the month 
of February (15 – 27 February) and once in the month of 
March 2021 (1st – 13th March). A total of 173 candidates 
(48 Female, 125 Male) registered for the program while a 
total of 104 candidates (22 Female, 82 Male) attended the 
program.
2.	
IITJ TISC started Advanced Certificate Program on Cyber 
Defense with Whizhack. A total of 95 students have 
registered under the ongoing program.
3.	
To commemorate the build up to India @ 75 celebrations, 
BioNEST at IIT J TISC organized a series of talks under the 
Vigyan se Vikas umbrella to Showcase Potential, Journey 
and Impact of Biotechnology on the Society on the 28th of 
June 2021. The following eminent Bioscience researchers 
delivered their talks on this occasion:
175
Annual Report 2020_21

■
Prof Raghavan Varadarajan, Professor at the Molecular 
Biophysics Unit at IISc Bangalore
■
Prof Dulal Panda, Chair Professor, Department of 
Biosciences and Bioengineering at IIT Bombay
■
Prof Ashok Kumar, Department of Biological Sciences 
and Bioengineering at IIT Kanpur
■
Prof Suman Kumar Dhar, Professor at the Special Centre 
for Molecular Medicine of Jawaharlal Nehru University.
■
Prof Souvik Maiti, Senior Principal Scientist at Institute 
of Genomics and Integrative Biology
4.	
IITJ TISC organized a Roadshow webinar on 22nd 
February, 2021 on various aspects of entrepreneurship 
and innovation in the Bioscience / MedTech space. The 
following speakers delivered expert talks on the subject:
■
Prof Santanu Chaudhury, Director IIT Jodhpur
■
Prof Sampat Raj Vadera, HoD Department of Physics, IIT 
Jodhpur
■
Prof. Vijay Chandru, Co-founder and Director at Stand 
Life Sciences & Adjunct faculty at IISc Bangalore
■
Dr. Chandra Madhavi, Senior Manager (Programmes) 
BIRAC, DBT
■
Prof. Kuldip Singh, Dean, AIIMS Jodhpur
■
Mr. Satyendra Johari, Founder and chairman at Johari 
Digital Healthcare Ltd.
5.	
IITJ TISC welcomed Dr. Nilotpal Ghosh from SERB in 
the month of November 2021. An interaction with our 
incubates and students was held wherein Dr. Ghosh gave 
insights on various funding as well as technical matters.
A webinar was delivered by Dr. P K Dan of IIT Kharagpur in 
the month of December 2021 on “Frugal Engineering: An 
Emerging Paradigm for Innovation and Startups” which was 
attended by incubates and students.
(d) IIT Jodhpur Technology Park
IIT Jodhpur promotes and supports the technology thoughts 
and actions towards the societal outreach. In fulfilment of the 
above, IIT Jodhpur has established the IIT Jodhpur Technology 
Park in the sprawling campus of IITJ having advanced facilities 
for industry engagement and scale-up of innovation capacity 
by leveraging the available intellectual capital at IIT Jodhpur. 
This has been created with the sole objective of providing 
technology innovations as a force to as many industries as 
possible for the economic value creation. We are working 
towards diffusion of the fruits of cutting-edge R&D from IITJ
by setting up state-of-art infrastructure having facilities for 
design and development of advanced technologies. Pending 
the construction and set-up of a fully functional Technology 
Park with all add-on facilities, a mini version has already been 
established at the Innovation Centre in the Pocket-B of the main 
campus. With a few Centres of Excellence in the contemporary 
technology verticals, this mini version of the Technology Park at 
the Innovation Centre is envisaged for the creation of a thriving 
techno-entrepreneurial ecosystem. This is expected to boost the 
creation of new age technology ventures and directly contribute 
to the capacity building for emerging industries. In this line 
Institute has already signed three MoUs for the new centres of 
excellence in the IIT Jodhpur Technology Park.
These include:
■
Pingala AI Pvt. Ltd. (Prithvi.AI) –a provider of seed-stage 
acceleration program designed for budding start-ups in 
the Artificial Intelligence and machine learning arena to 
set-up AIOT and Industry 4.0 support system ‘HEEEAL’ 
(Healthcare, Education, Energy, Environment, Agriculture 
and Livelihood) at the Innovation Centre in the unit.
■
Johari Digital Healthcare Limited (JDHL), Jodhpur –one 
of the first MDSAP and US FDA certified GMP audited 
manufacturing company in India working on design, 
development, engineering and production of electronic 
healthcare devices to be distributed worldwide to set up 
a Centre of Excellence for Medical Technologies at the 
Innovation Centre in the unit powered by JDHL.
■
WhizHack Technologies Private Limited – signed an 
MoU with IITJ Tech Park on the 10th December 2020 
for establishing a Centre of Excellence (CoE) for new 
innovations in Cyber Security, AI, and to encourage and 
promote cooperation for developing jointly branded 
Advocacy, Training programs and Product Development 
in the mentioned areas. WhizHack Technologies is the 
first Indian product engineering and human capital 
development company for managing complete value chain 
of secured cyber environment.
The IIT Jodhpur technology park has also signed an MoU with 
MSME Technology Centre Bhiwadi on 24th December 2020. 
The aim here is to support students with projects / fellowships 
and Industrial hands-on at MSME Technology Centre Bhiwadi, 
support R&D projects, Joint EDP workshop/seminar /training, 
supporting start-ups, students, upcoming entrepreneurs 
with incubation and technological support, etc. Some of the 
industries linked with MSME Technology Centre Bhiwadi will 
be engaged virtually at the IIT Jodhpur Technology Park in the 
initial phase for a larger industrial ecosystem in the state of 
Rajasthan.
176
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

(e) iHub Drishti, the Technology 
Innovation Hub (TIH)
iHub Drishti, the Technology Innovation Hub (TIH) at IIT 
Jodhpur, is a section 8 company, established under National 
Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber-Physical System (NM-ICPS) in 
2020. iHub Drishti is the point of convergence between industry 
and academic community in the country for computer vision 
(CV), augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR). Its mandate 
includes research activities, training and capacity building, 
and technology generation to ensure self-sustainability. 
NM-ICPS agreed to support the Hub with the Grant-In-Aid 
up to Rs. 115 crore to be released to the Hub over a period of 
5 years. The hub has already received the initial grant of Rs. 
19.25 crore, and within a year of operation, it has partnered 
with top academicians, researchers and industry players from 
India and abroad. The hub endeavours to ramp up its activities 
encompassing development of technology and products, 
setting up state-of-the-art labs, generation of intellectual 
properties, increasing CPS research base, development of 
entrepreneurial ecosystem, job creation, human resource 
development and international collaboration.
1.	
Technology Development: The hub focuses on four 
core scientific horizontals: (i) Seeing and Sensing, (ii) 
Dependability, (iii) Realtime Computer Vision Systems, (iv) 
Data Collection, Curation and Annotation for developing 
technologies in the following application verticals:
■
Computer Vision for Autonomous Systems
■
Computer Vision for Better Living: Healthcare and 
Biosphere
■
Imaging for Document Analysis
■
CV and VR for Industry 4.0
■
AR-VR for X
■
RAKSHAK (AI and Data Science for COVID)
2.	
Productization & Commercialization: Monitoring the 
ecosystem to facilitate new research, ideas, research 
translation to business creation. The RAKSHAK vertical has 
projects leading to products:
■
Campus RAKSHAK - A decision support framework 
for Campus Safety - a collaborative work: Contact 
tracing app, Agent based simulators, Badging. 
Commercializing this as product through Direct 
Executives, Marketing Partners and Testing Labs.
■
Tapestry pooling - Combinatorial pooled testing 
technique developed by IIT Bombay team leading to a 
startup.
■
SMART HEALTH solutions for Rapid Mass Diagnosis 
for COVID: A telemedicine platform developed by IIT 
Jodhpur leading to a startup.
3.	
Research Publications and Patent: There have been several 
publications from different projects supported, and few 
technologies are in the advanced stage of patent filing.
4.	
Hackathon and International Conference: Increasing the 
visibility and outreach of the hub with an enriched network 
of stakeholders. The hub has co-organized, in collaboration 
with IIT Jodhpur, ‘16th International Conference on 
Automatic Face and Gesture Recognition (FG 2021)’ via 
virtual mode.
5.	
Skill Development: 200+ executives trained in Computer 
Vision, Autonomous Systems, NLP in collaboration with 
IIT Jodhpur. PG & MTech program in ARVR framework in 
collaboration with Pan IIT faculties & Industries is being 
finalized.
6.	
Fostering industry connections: Twelve companies 
including Samsung Research India Bangalore (SRIB) are 
onboarded as Industry Partners. Collaborative research 
started with the Defence Research & Development 
Organization (DRDO) Centre for Artificial Intelligence & 
Robotics (CAIR).
7.	
Calls for Proposal: Fostering culture of Industry-academia 
collaboration through Open calls: (i) Creation of Digital 
Museums for the Rajasthan government with Alwar 
Museum as the starting point, (ii) Content creation solutions 
for ARVR, (iii) India Anatomy Project, (iv) Improving doctor-
patient communication using VR, (v) Haptics based medical 
simulators for palpation and tele-diagnosis.
8.	
US-India Collaborative Research: Discussion is in advanced 
stage with the National Science Foundation’s (NSF) 
Directorate for Computer and Information Science and 
Engineering (CISE) and Directorate for Engineering (ENG) to 
conduct US-India Collaborative Research.
177
Annual Report 2020_21

Academics

Academics Programs
Currently, the Institute offers the following Academic 
Programs.
1. Bachelor of Technology Programs
2.	
B.Tech. (Computer Science and Engineering)
7.	
B.Tech. (Civil and Infrastructure Engineering)
8.	
B.Tech. (Artificial Intelligence and Data Science)
2. Master of Science Programs
3. Master of Technology Programs
2.	
M.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering)
4.	
M.Tech. (Cyber Physical System)
5.	
M.Tech. (Sensors and Internet of Things)
6.	
M.Tech. (Advanced Manufacturing and Design)
7.	
M.Tech. (Data and Computational Sciences)
9.	
M.Tech. (Metallurgical & Materials Engineering)
12. M.Tech. (Civil and Infrastructure Engineering with 
specialization in Environmental Engineering)
13. M.Tech. (Civil and Infrastructure Engineering with 
specialization in Energy)
15. M.Tech. Executive - Cyber Physical Systems
16. M.Tech. Executive - Data & Computational Sciences
4. Doctor of Philosophy Programs
1.	
Ph.D. with specialization in Biosciences and 
Bioengineering
2.	
Ph.D. with specialization in Chemistry
3.	
Ph.D. with specialization in Computer Science & 
Engineering
4.	
Ph.D. with specialization in Electrical Engineering
5.	
Ph.D. with specialization in Humanities & Social 
Sciences
6.	
Ph.D. with specialization in Mathematics
7.	
Ph.D. with specialization in Mechanical Engineering
8.	
Ph.D. with specialization in Metallurgical & Materials 
Engineering
9.	
Ph.D. with specialization in Physics
10. Ph.D. with specialization in Chemical Engineering
11. Ph.D. with specialization in Civil and Infrastructure 
Engineering
179
Annual Report 2020_21

12. Ph.D. with specialization in Medical Technologies
13. Ph.D. with specialization in Management and 
Entrepreneurship
14. Ph.D. with specialization in Artificial and Data Science
5. Master of Science - Master of 
Technology Programs
1.	
Data and Computational Sciences
2. M.Sc. in Physics and M.Tech. in Materials Engineering
6. Master of Technology - Doctor of 
Philosophy (M.Tech.-Ph.D.) Dual 
Degree Programs
1.	
M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Bioscience & 
Bioengineering)
2.	
M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Computer Science & 
Engineering)
3.	
M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Artificial Intelligence)
4.	
M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Communication and Signal 
Processing)
5.	
M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Cyber Physical Systems)
6.	
M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Sensors and Internet of 
Things)
7.	
M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Data and Computational 
Sciences)
8.	
M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Materials Engineering)
9.	
M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Mechanical Design)
10. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Advanced Manufacturing)
11. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Thermofluids Engineering)
12. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Civil and Infrastructure 
Engineering with specialization in Environmental 
Engineering)
13. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Civil and Infrastructure 
Engineering with specialization in Energy)
14. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Chemical Engineering)
7. Doctor of Philosophy Program in 
Inter-disciplinary Areas
1.	
Ph.D. (Robotics and Mobility Systems Technologies)
2.	
Ph.D. (Science of Intelligence)
5.	
Ph.D. (Quantum Information and Computation)
7.	
Ph.D. (Space Science & Technology)
9. Masters and Ph.D. Dual Degree
1. Medical Technology
10.	
Masters Programs
1. Medical Technologies
180
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl. No. Roll No. Name Thesis Title Supervisor Dept. Date of Defense
1 P14BS005 Ms. Shivanjali
Saxena The Role of NLRs in Glioma
Microenvironment Dr. Sushmita
Jha Bioscience and
Bioengineering 28-Apr-20
2 PG201384008 Ms. Megha Singh Fault diagnosis of a three-phase
induction motor using Stockwell
transform and machine learning
techniques Dr. Abdul
Gafoor Shaik Electrical
Engineering 05-May-20
3 PG201383504 Mr. Satendra Pal
Singh Novel and Robust Methodologies
for Image Security Dr. Gaurav
Bhatnagar Mathematics 11-May-20
4 PG201181004 Mr. Vikas Pratap
Singh Solar Power Generation
Forecasting using Neural
Network Based Approach Dr.B.Ravindra
and Dr.Vivek
Vijay Mechanical
Engineering 29-May-20
5 PG201283007 Mr. Rakesh
Kumar Short-term Solar Irradiance
Forecasting and Performance
Analysis of Solar PV Systems Dr.Vivek Vijay Focus Group-
System Science 13-Jun-20
6 P15VSS003 Mr. Tushar
Shankar Shinde Efficient Motion Estimation and
Predictive Coding Methods for
Compression of Spatio-temporal
Sequences Dr. Anil Kumar
Tiwari Electrical
Engineering 17-Jun-20
7 PG201384013 Ms Shalini Singh Investigation of Cellular and
Molecular Pathways of Innate
Immunity in Context of Glioma
Pathophysiology and Cellular
Inflammation Dr. Sushmita
Jha Bioscience and
Bioengineering 19-Jun-20
8 P15CY002 Ms. Hargeet Kaur A game-theoretic perspective of
Quantum Information Processing Dr. Atul Kumar Chemistry 26-Jun-20
9 P14ME008 Mr. Phdatare
Hanmant
Pandurang Assessment of nonlinear
responses and bifurcation
analysis of light-weight shaft disk
system with difefrent loading
configurations Dr. Barun
Pratiher Mechanical
Engineering 29-Jun-20
Ph.D. Theses Defense
The following Ph.D. Students defended their theses successfully during this financial year:
181
Annual Report 2020_21

Sl. No. Roll No. Name Thesis Title Supervisor Dept. Date of Defense
10 P15ME003 Mr. Pravesh
Kumar Modal analysis and nonlinear
dynamics of multi-link flexible
manipulator with generic
payload mounted on a moving
base Dr. Barun
Pratiher Mechanical
Engineering 03-Jul-20
11 P14PH003 Mr. Javid Ahmad
Naikoo A study of nonclassicality in
(Open) Quantum Systems Dr. Subhashish
Banerjee Physics 06-Jul-20
12 PG201383006 Ms Shraddha
Choudhary Scattering of Electromagnetic
Waves in Disordered
Metamaterials and Metasurfaces Dr. Kiran Kumar
Hiremath Focus Group-
System Science 08-Jul-20
13 P14CS001 Ms. Hiteshi Jain Assessment of Human Actions in
Videos Dr. Gaurav Harit Computer
Science and
Engineering 10-Jul-20
14 P14PH001 Mr. Rajesh Kumar Oxide and Metal rich-Oxide
Based Spectrally Selective
Absorber Coatings for Solar
Thermal Applications Dr. Ambesh
Dixit Physics 28-Jul-20
15 P14BL002 Mr. Sachinkumar
Rajendrakumar
Vyas Isolation, Identification, and
Characterization of Oleaginous
Yeast Capable of Growing and
Producing Lipids on Agro-
industrial Waste Dr. Meenu
Chhabra Bioscience and
Bioengineering 09-Sep-20
16 P14PH004 Mr. Vijendra
Singh Bhati Metal Oxide Semiconductor
based Gas Sensors Dr. Mahesh
Kumar Physics 15-Sep-20
17 P14CHM002 Mr. Abhinav
Srivastava Slow Relaxations of Hydration
Water near a Lipid Membrane: a
Molecular Dynamics Study Dr. Ananya
Debnath Chemistry 28-Sep-20
18 P15EE203 Mr. Rahul Kumar Chemical Vapor Deposition
Grown MoS2 for Sensing
Applications Dr. Mahesh
Kumar Electrical
Engineering 08-Oct-20
19 P14EN001 Ms. Priya
Malpani An investigation on the
nonclassical and quantum
phase properties of a family of
engineered quantum states Dr. V.
Narayanan Physics 30-Oct-20
20 P15VSS202 Mr. Neeraj Goel Design and fabrication of AlGaN/
GaN Transistors for Heavy Metal
Ion Sensors Dr. Mahesh
Kumar Electrical
Engineering 13-Nov-20
21 P14VSS001 Mr. Adarsh
Nigam A Solution state NMR Account
of Organophosphate Pesticides-
Protein Interaction Dr. Mahesh
Kumar Electrical
Engineering 14-Nov-20
22 P14BS006 Ms. Vandana High performance optical and
gas sensors based on 2D/3D
heterostructures Dr. Samanwita
Pal Chemistry 16-Nov-20
23 P15ME002 Mr. Lochan
Sharma Development of Submerged arc
welding fluxes for welding of
Linepipe steel Dr Rahul
Chhibber Mechanical
Engineering 23-Nov-20
182
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl. No. Roll No. Name Thesis Title Supervisor Dept. Date of Defense
24 P16PH001 Mr. Rajneesh
Chaurasiya Low Dimensional Transition
Metal Dichalcogenides for Nano
Device applications Dr. Ambesh
Dixit Physics 28-Nov-20
25 P15CY006 Ms. Arpita
Srivastava Self-assembly of Surfactants and
Bio-inspired Soft Materials for
Desired Macroaggregates using
Multiscale Simulations Dr. Ananya
Debnath Chemistry 14-Jan-21
26 P15CY007 Ms. Sumitra
Godara Unimolecular Reaction
Dynamics: Mechanisms and
Pathways via Chemical Dynamics
Simulations Dr. Manikandan
Paranjothy Chemistry 15-Jan-21
27 P16VSS003 Mr. Vivek
Raghuwanshi Operationally Stable Flexible
Organic Field Efefct Transistors
on Unconventional Substrates Dr. Shree
Prakash Tiwari Electrical
Engineering 01-Feb-21
28 P14VSS006 Mr. Parveen A Scanning Tunnelling
Microscopic Study of Single
Organic Molecular Device Dr. Satyajit
Sahu Electrical
Engineering 05-Feb-21
29 P15CY001 Ms. Devika
Laishram Advanced Functional
Nanomaterials for Energy and
Environmental Applications Dr. Rakesh
Kumar Sharma
Co-Supervisor:
Dr. Ritu Gupta Chemistry 10-Feb-21
30 P15CY004 Ms. Anchal
Gahlaut Theoretical Investigations of
Unimolecular Reaction Dynamics
in the Gas Phase Dr. Manikandan
Paranjothy Chemistry 12-Feb-21
31 P14VSS003 Mr. Ishan Varun Fabrication and Characterization
of Flexible Hybrid Resistive
Random Access Memory Devices Dr. Shree
Prakash Tiwari Electrical
Engineering 05-Mar-21
32 P14SS001 Mr. Brajesh
Kumar Shukla Development of an Instrument
of Sit-to-Stand for measurement
of Sarcopenia in older Indians Dr. Vivek Vijay Focus Group-
System
Science, 08-Mar-21
33 P15ME203 Mr. Ankit
Agarwal Modeling and Control of
Geometric Tolerances in
End-Milling of Thin-walled
Components Dr. Kaushal
Desai Mechanical
Engineering 10-Mar-21
34 P16CS002 Ms. Pratibha
Choudhary Parameterized Complexity of
Tracking Paths Dr. Aritra
Banik and Dr.
Venkatesh
Raman Computer
Science and
Engineering 18-Mar-21
35 P15EE004 Mr. Shivam
Chaturvedi Robust Control Techniques for
Virtual Impedance Shaping to
Mitigate and Share the Double
Line Frequency Ripple in
Microgrids Dr. Deepak
Fulwani Electrical
Engineering 18-Mar-21
36 PG201281001 Mr. Ajay Jain Thermal IR signature study and
analysis of exhaust emission of
diesel engine vehicles Dr. B. Ravindra Mechanical
Engineering 25-Mar-21
37 P15CY005 Ms. Bhawna
Chaubey Solution State 19F Magnetic
Resonance (MR) Account
of Molecular Interactions in
Solutions Dr. Samanwita
Pal Chemistry 27-Mar-21
183
Annual Report 2020_21

Sl. No. MoU/Agreement signed between Date of signing Objective
1. MoU between Dr. Sarvepalli
Radhakrishan Rajasthan Ayurved
University, Jodhpur & IIT Jodhpur 24.02.2021 The Parties are interested in exploring the possibility of
establishing a collaborative relationship, to conduct relevant
activities aligned to their respective research interests and
expertise.
2. Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. And
IIT Jodhpur 18.02.2021 To promote cooperation in areas of mutual interest for the benefit
of both institutions.
3. IIT JODHPUR AND IIT KHARAGPUR
for Installation and Support of ERP
System 04.02.2021 To install the ERP software developed by Indian Institute of
Technology Kharagpur into server/system of IIT Jodhpur and make
necessary customization by localized team of First Party for day-to-
day use of the institute.
4. Universite Polytechnique Hauts-de-
France, UPHF and IIT Jodhpur 28.01.2021 To collaborate in the fields of research and enhancement of
its results, education and training and to thus contribute to
disseminate knowledge and culture.
5. Scholar Lab Foundation and IIT
Jodhpur 06.01.2021 MoU is based on the principle of reciprocity & mutual benefit
and expresses the interest of both parties in advancing scientific
and technological knowledge in the area of Energy, Water
Management, Healthcare, IT, Environment, New Technologies and
other areas where the work will be carried out.
6. License Agreement between
Confederation Of Indian Industry
and IIT Jodhpur 06.01.2021 A. The Parties are desirous of working together to create, publish
and provide online courses on diverse subjects for enhancing
employability to the Subscribers/Authorised Users i.e. students
professionals.
7. IIT Jodhpur and MSME Technology
Centre Bhiwadi 24.12.2020 To provide a formal basis for interaction between IIT Jodhpur and
MSME Technology Centre Bhiwadi to enhance collaboration in
Engineering, production and research areas for Micro, Small and
Medium Enterprises (MSMEs).
8. EPITA, School of Engineering &
Computer Science, France and IIT
Jodhpur 12.12.2020 Academic Collaboration, to establish a cooperative relationship
with the aim of developing and fostering academic links between
both Institutes.
9. EPITA and IIT Jodhpur 12.12.2020 Student Exchange Agreement
10. WhizHack Technologies Private
Limited and IIT Jodhpur 09.12.2020 To encourage and promote cooperation in the fields of Cyber
Security and IoT (Internet of Things) for developing jointly branded
Advocacy, Training programs and Product Development in the
areas of mutual interest.
Collaborations
The Institute has signed Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) with several international and national universities, agencies for 
furthering cooperation on specific fronts. These MoUs are:
184
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl. No. MoU/Agreement signed between Date of signing Objective
11. Department of Information
Technology & Communication,
Govt. of Raj. AND IIT Jodhpur 04.12.2020 To promote the Startup ecosystem in the State of Rajasthan by
partnering with DoIT&C by leveraging its extensive experience and
resources for the promotion of startups.
12. LA Trobe University and IIT Jodhpur 02.12.2020 To engage with each other in a program of co-operation to explore
potential collaborations such as staff and student exchanges,
projects or programs.
13. Johari Digital Healthcare Ltd.(JDHL)
and IITJ Technology Park Jodhpur 11.11.2020 To cooperate for the purpose of (i) practicing and encouraging
technology transfer and commercialization of innovations to
increase research related economic growth in regions country and
the overseas, (ii) identify and seek out joint business opportunities
through national and international networking, and (iii) work out a
common yearly planning for activities and Match Making events to
be shared also with local economic promotion agencies, start-ups
(iv) Leverage the expertise of Knowledge Partners in Healthcare,
Environment and Livelihood.
14. Johari Digital Healthcare Ltd. and
Indian Institute of Technology
Jodhpur 10.11.2020 To promote and facilitate Innovation, Commercialization and
Mentorship of the Projects undertaken the aegis of JCoE and find
solutions to specific problems in the area of Medical Devices and
Technologies, wherein each Project undertaken shall be preceded
with a Definitive Agreement recording the terms and conditions
governing the Project.
15. IIT Jodhpur and National Research
Lobachevsky State University of
Nizhny Novgoraod , Russia 9.11.2020 Implementation of cooperation in teaching, academic, student
exchange and research, academic exchange of students (PhD
Students)
16. IIT Jodhpur and JNVU 05.11.2020 To share the facility and expertise related to Bioscience and to
explore, extend and strengthen the functional collaboration
between the two Institutes in the areas of Bioscience related
research.
17. MoU reg. Scheme of Fund for
Regeneration of Traditional
Industries (SFURTI)-between IITJ
as Technical Agency and Khadi
& Village Industries Commission
(KVIC) as Nodal Agency 27.10.2020 signed to implement Scheme of Fund for Regeneration of
Traditional Industries (SFURTI)-between IITJ as Technical Agency
and Khadi & Village Industries Commission (KVIC) as Nodal Agency.
18. Deakin University, Victoria and IIT
Jodhpur 21.10.2020 Academic Staff collaboration in Research, Teaching and learning
in areas of common interest, International Transfer programs,
Joint Academic programs for working professionals, International
mobility programs – Student and Faculty, Jointly supervised Ph.D.
and M.Tech. Programs.
19. Indian Institute of Technology
Jodhpur and Hearthealth
Technologies Private Limited (HTPL)
Bengaluru 20.10.2020 Collaboration between the parties for Use of Technologies in
Medical Image Analysis, Diagnosis and Prognosis.
185
Annual Report 2020_21

Sl. No. MoU/Agreement signed between Date of signing Objective
20. Multi Institutional MoU between
(Meity) IIT Bombay and IIT Jodhpur
& other IITs 12.10.2020 To provide a state of the art experimental research faculty to all the
program participants (as well as participants from other academic
institutes and the industry) to carry out experimentation of their
research ideas, and trials of the subsystems they are building as
part of the program.
* To provide a common platform for exchange of ideas, knowledge
sharing etc. by organizing workshops, conclaves and training
sessions for participants of the programs and also from other
educational institutes in the country.
* To serve as a resource center for coordination of all the activities
with the stakeholders of the multi-institutional project.
* To monitor progress towards completion of the deliverables
proposed by the collaborations in their respective institute’s
proposals and achievement of the overall project objectives.
21. General Memorandum of
Understating between The
University of Western Australia and
The Indian Institute of Technology
Jodhpur 17.09.2020 Objectives are below:
* exchange of staff
* Joint research activities
*Joint conferences and other academic meetings
*exchange of academic materials and information
*exchange of students.
22. IITJ and NIRDPR 15.09.2020 Based on the principle of reciprocity and expresses the interest of
collaboration among both Institutions in
1. Technology Development & Translation
2. Exchange of academic information and materials
3. Faculty and Student exchange and
4. Infrastructure sharing
23. (Non Disclosure Agreement)
Department of Information
Technology, Jodhpur and Police
Commissionerate, Jodhpur and
Indian Institute of Technology
Jodhpur 04.09.2020 To set up a City Knowledge and Innovation cluster in Jodhpur to
achieve the objective of efefctive and efficient governance.
24. NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited
and Indian Institute of Technology
Jodhpur 03.09.2020 To Own, Acquire, Establish, Operate and Maintain Generating
Stations, Transmission Systems and Distribution Systems.
25. (Non Disclosure Agreement) M/s
Watsan Envirotech Private Limited
(CIN U29253TN2013PTC091052)
and Indian Institute of Technology
Jodhpur 01.09.2020 For Improvement of formulations and performance based on
various types of water alleviations, using difefrent models of G
filters across India.
26. All India Institute of Medical
Sciences Nagpur and Indian
Institute of Technology Jodhpur 20.08.2020 Promote relations that mutually benefit each Institute, this
being the primary aim of a true academic collaboration; and S&T
cooperation towards developing devices for diagnostics and
treatment towards providing improved quality of healthcare.
27. Indian Institute of Technology
Jodhpur and Brandeis International
Business School, Brandeis
University, Waltham, Massachusetts 08.08.2020 The principle of reciprocity and expression of interest for
collaboration among both institution in teaching learning and
research and to explore the promotion of academic cooperation
and exchange might include.
186
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl. No. MoU/Agreement signed between Date of signing Objective
28. IIT Jodhpur and Pingala AI Pvt, Ltd.
Noida UP 12.7.2020 To help incubate & accelerate novel technologies and business
ideas by IITJ startups into viable commercial products.
29. IIT Jodhpur and NACL Industries
Limited 10.06.2020 Wheras Licensor has developed an advanced Photocatalytic
Oxidation Sterilization System based on UV-light and metal oxide
Nanoparticles Catalyst to treat N95 Filtering Face-mask Respirators
and other accessories for reuse (Technology) bu healthcare
workers for protection from air born transmissions as in diseases
such as, COVID-19, SARS CoV and other Influenzas.
30. IIT Jodhpur and Pyrotech
Electronics Pvt. Ltd. (Unit-1) 10.06.2020 Transfer of technology titled "An Advanced Photocatalytic
Oxidation Sterilization System Based on UV-Light and Metal Oxide
Nanoparticles Catalyst to treat N95 Filtering Face-Mask Respirators
for reuse" developed by IIT Jodhpur
31. IIT Jodhpur and Porte Automations
Private Ltd. 29.05.2020 Collaboration Project to design, develop and characterize a non-
equilibrium cold plasma system and optimize it for negative and
positive ion concentration generation and others objectives.
32. IIT Jodhpur and ZINTEX BLUE
OCEAN PVT. LTD., Jaipur 16.05.2020 Transfer of technology titled “An Advanced Photocatalytic
Oxidation Sterilization System Based on UV-Light and Metal Oxide
Nanoparticles Catalyst to treat N-95 Filtering Face-Mask Respirators
for reuse” developed by IIT Jodhpur.
33. IIT Jodhpur and Mai Bharat 16.05.2020 Transfer of technology titled “An Advanced Photocatalytic
Oxidation Sterilization System Based on UV-Light and Metal Oxide
Nanoparticles Catalyst to treat N-95 Filtering Face-Mask Respirators
for reuse” developed by IIT Jodhpur.
34. Samsung India Electronics Private
Ltd. and IIT Jodhpur 15.05.2020 Carrying out Research & Development including but not limited to
reports, updates, commentaries, outputs, other written documents
etc.
35. IIT Jodhpur and Johari Digital
Healthcare Limited 07.05.2020 Transfer of technology titled “An Advanced Photocatalytic
Oxidation Sterilization System Based on UV-Light and Metal Oxide
Nanoparticles Catalyst to treat N-95 Filtering Face-Mask Respirators
for reuse” developed by IIT Jodhpur.
36. IIT Jodhpur and ISCON Surgicals
Ltd. Jodhpur 05.05.2020 Transfer of technology titled “An Advanced Photocatalytic
Oxidation Sterilization System Based on UV-Light and Metal Oxide
Nanoparticles Catalyst to treat N-95 Filtering Face-Mask Respirators
for reuse” developed by IIT Jodhpur.
37. IIT Jodhpur and Kamtech
Associates Private Limited 05.05.2020 Transfer of technology titled “An Advanced Photocatalytic
Oxidation Sterilization System Based on UV-Light and Metal Oxide
Nanoparticles Catalyst to treat N-95 Filtering Face-Mask Respirators
for reuse” developed by IIT Jodhpur.
38. IIT Jodhpur and Chempharm
Industries India Pvt. Ltd. 05.05.2020 Transfer of technology titled “An Advanced Photocatalytic
Oxidation Sterilization System Based on UV-Light and Metal Oxide
Nanoparticles Catalyst to treat N-95 Filtering Face-Mask Respirators
for reuse” developed by IIT Jodhpur.
39. IIT Jodhpur and Parappadi
Technology Private Limited 05.05.2020 Transfer of technology titled “An Advanced Photocatalytic
Oxidation Sterilization System Based on UV-Light and Metal Oxide
Nanoparticles Catalyst to treat N-95 Filtering Face-Mask Respirators
for reuse” developed by IIT Jodhpur.
40. TRS Solutions LLP and IIT Jodhpur 10.04.2020 Collaborative research in the area of Artificial Intelligence in
Medical imaging to advance Radiology Diagnostic Capabilities.
41. Centre for Advanced Research in
Imaging Neuroscience & Genomics,
New Delhi and Indian Institute of
Technology Jodhpur, Rajasthan 07.04.2020 CARING and IITJ desire to implement, in the areas of mutual
interest, cooperative and collaborative activities, which would
address multidisciplinary scientific, technological and educational
problems of relevance to the country.
187
Annual Report 2020_21

Research

1. Development of low cost Microbial Carbon capture (MCC) cells for algae cultivation and powers generation
PI: Meenu Chhabra DBT Rs. 77.59 Lakhs Start Date: 24-Dec-
14 End Date: 31-Mar-21
2. Integrative Approach for Identification of Disease Genes of Type II Diabetes
PI: Sushmita Paul SERB Rs. 26.76 Lakhs Start Date: 30-Mar-
17 End Date: 29-Mar-20
Closure in-Progress
3. Expression analysis of inflammasome-forming NLRs in gliomas for identification of novel therapeutic interventions
PI: Sushmita Jha DBT Rs.42.15 Lakhs Start Date: 06-Sep-
17 End Date: 05-Sep-20
Closure in-Progress
4. Hospital-associated ESKAPE pathogens: Unraveling novel regulatory layers controlling virulence and persistence.
PI: Shankar Manoharan The Wellcome Trust,
DBT India Alliance Rs. 164.88 Lakhs Start Date: 17-Jan-
18 End Date: 31-Aug22
5. Role of Centriole Protein, CPAP in neurodevelopmental disorder
PI: Priyanka SIngh SERB Rs. 38.74Lakhs Start Date: 28-Nov-
18 End Date: 27-Nov-21
6. Modulation of a-Synuclein Amyloid Assembly by Human Chaperone-like Proteins
PI: Neha Jain SERB Rs.41.00 Lakhs Start Date: 22-May-
19 End Date: 21-May-22
7. GenomeIndia: Cataloguing the Genetic Variation in Indians
PI: Sushmita Paul
Co-PI: Sushmita Jha DBT Rs. 115.00 Lakhs Start Date: 28-Feb-
20 End Date: 22-Feb-23
8. Elucidating the role of centrosome protein CEP152 in primary microcephaly
PI: Priyanka Singh DBT Rs. 59.50 Lakhs Start Date: 27-Feb-
20 End Date: 26-Feb-23
9. Multimodal Approach for Repairing of Brain Damage: Small Molecule Mediated Neurogenesis from Stem Cells and
Transplantation of Regenerated Neurons through Novel Scafoflds
PI: Surajit Ghosh SERB Rs. 279.57 Lakhs Start Date: 30-Mar-
20 End Date: 29-Mar-23
10. Multimodal Approaches to Develop Potential Therapeutic Leads Targeting Molecular Hot Spots of Duchenne Muscular
Dystrophy for Clinical Trial
PI: Surajit Ghosh
Co-PI: Nirmal K Rana, Dibyendu
Sasmal, Sudipta Bhattacharyya SERB Rs.389.00 Lakhs Start Date: 23-Jan-
20 End Date: 22-Jan-25
R&D Projects
Sponsored Research Projects
189
Annual Report 2020_21

11. Systems Biology and Network Analysis for Enabling Research in Personalized Genomics
PI: Sushmita Paul MHRD (GIAN) Rs 05.68 Lakhs Start Date: 20-Mar-
20 End Date: N/A
12. Understanding the Molecular Specific Scales of Tumor Suppressor Gene 101 (tsg101) enclosed LRSAM1 E3 Ubiquitin Ligase
in the Elimination of Polyglutamine Proteins
PI: Amit Mishra BRNS Rs. 26.34 Lakhs Start Date: 19-Oct-
20 End Date: 18-Oct-23
13. Deciphering Molecular Mechanism of Action and Electron Acceptor Specificity Through structure based functional
characterization of staphylococcal glutathione peroxidase enzymes
PI: Sudipta Bhattacharyya SERB Rs. 30.78 Lakhs Start Date: 07-Dec-
20 End Date: 06-Dec-22
14. Reconstitution of Microenvironment of Brain using Advanced Prototype-based Microfluidic System for Neuro-organoid
Culture and Monitoring the Synapse Formation
PI: Surajit Ghosh SERB Rs. 38.50 Lakhs Start Date: 22-Dec-
20 End Date: 21-Dec-23
15. Wastewater treatment and Electricity generation using Microbial Fuel Cell and Simultaneous production of Beta carotene
from genetically engineered Chlamydomonas sp.
PI: Meenu Chhabra DST Rs. 22.57 Lakhs Start Date: 12-Aug-
20 End Date: 11-Aug-25
16. Palladium-catalyzed synthesis of novel heterocycles for the development of potent tubulin polymerization inhibitors.
PI: Surajit Ghosh SERB Rs. 20.25 Lakhs Start Date: 03-Dec-
20 End Date: 02-Dec-22
17. Role of functional amyloid genic protein Tly A in biofilm formation and severity of diseases caused by H.pylori
PI: Ambar Ish Mentor: Neha Jain DST Rs. 4.51 Lakhs Start Date: 30-Oct-
20 End Date: 29-Oct-25
18. Controlled morphologies via phase-separation in epoxy blends for electronic sensor & device packaging
PI: Deepak Arora SERB Rs. 31.39 Lakhs Start Date: 03-Dec-
20 End Date: 02-Dec-22
19. Designing of Potential Adsorbents via Molecular Modelling and Simulations for the High Temperature Carbon Dioxide
Capture
PI: Angan Sengupta SERB Rs. 21.95 Lakhs Start Date: 04-Dec-
20 End Date: 03-Dec-21
20. Design of Zn Anode and Non-native Structured MnO2 Cathode for Stationary Grid Energy Storage Devices
PI: Prashant K. Gupta DST Rs. 35.00 Lakhs Start Date: 17-Feb-
21 End Date: 16-Feb-26
21. Catalytic Upgrading of Bio-Oil to Transport Fuel
PI: Rakesh K. Sharma DBT Rs. 94.79 Lakhs Start Date: 24-Dec-
14 End Date: 31-Mar-21
22. Solid state Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) assessment of zinc oxide (ZnO) nanomaterial based drug delivery systems
PI: Samanwita Pal
Co-PI : Ambesh Dixit SERB Rs. 34.45 Lakhs Start Date: 28-Aug-
17 End Date: 27-Aug-20
23. New Single Source Precursors for Potential Nanostructured Bi2Te3/sb2Te3 System Based Thermoelectric Materials
PI: Ramesh K. Metre SERB Rs. 32.12 Lakhs Start Date: 05-Oct-
17 End Date: 04-Oct-20
190
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

24. Impact of Rainwater Harvesting on Groundwater Quality in India with Specific Reference to Fluoride and Mircropollutants
PI: Rakesh K. Sharma DST Rs. 75.27 Lakhs Start Date: 10-May-
18 End Date: 16-Feb-22
25. Tandem Annulations Involving Metallocarbenes: Towards Diverse Molecular Architectures
PI: Sandip Murarka SERB Rs. 33.00 Lakhs Start Date: 10-July-
18 End Date: 09-July-21
26. Development of Catalytic Diastereo and Enantiodivergent Tandem Reactions
PI: Nirmal Kumar Rana DST Rs. 35.00 Lakhs Start Date: 02-July-
18 End Date: 01-Nov-21
27. Multiparticle Entanglement, Nonlocality and Quantum Information processing- Analysing the role and applications of
statistical correlations
PI: Atul Kumar SERB Rs. 19.50 Lakhs Start Date: 18-Mar-
19 End Date: 17-Mar-22
28. Chiral Calix-crowns for asymmetric phase transfer catalyst
PI: Pragati R Sharma DST Rs. 34.68 Lakhs Start Date: 01-Oct-
19 End Date: 30-Sep-22
29. Investigating asymmetric mixed surfactant bilayers using dual-scale simulations to correlate bilayer properties with
thermodynamics of asymmetry
PI: Ananaya Debnath
Co-PI: Santosh Mogurampelly SERB Rs. 44.36 Lakhs Start Date: 07-Feb-
20 End Date: 06-Feb-23
30. Modeling Organic and Biochemical phenomena via direct chemical dynamics simulations
PI: Manikandan, P. SERB Rs. 51.88 Lakhs Start Date: 06-Feb-
20 End Date: 05-Feb-23
31. FIST Project
PI: Rohan D. Erande
Co-PI: R. K. Sharma, Ramesh K.
Metre, Sandip Murarka DST-FIST Rs. 216.00 Lakhs Start Date: 18-Sep-
20 End Date: 17-Sep-25
32. Capturing and Real-Time Monitoring of Dynamic Instability of TCR-PMHC Bond for Probing Serial Engagement Using Single-
Molecule FRET and Biomembrane Force Probe in Live T Cell
PI: Dibeyendu K. Sasmal SERB Rs. 28.05 Lakhs Start Date: 12-Nov-
20 End Date: 11-Nov-22
33. Sustainable Non-Noble Transition Metal Based Pincer Catalytic Design for High-Value Chemical Transformations
PI: Subrata Chakraborty SERB Rs. 29.26 Lakhs Start Date: 17-Dec-
20 End Date: 16-Dec-22
34. Tandem Reactions Utilizing Nitrogen Ylides: Unified Approach for Asymmetric Synthesis of Diverse Heterocycles
PI: Nirmal Kumar Rana SERB Rs. 58.48 Lakhs Start Date: 17-Dec-
20 End Date: 16-Dec-23
35. Main-Group Organornetallic complexes Based Molecular Materials For Applications in Molecular Electronics
PI: Ramesh K. Metre SERB Rs. 36.82 Lakhs Start Date: 05-Dec-
20 End Date: 04-Dec-23
36. Development of Functionalized Metal Oxides and Layered Materials for Environmental Sensors
PI: Ritu Gupta SERB Rs. 73.45 Lakhs Start Date: 22-Dec-
20 End Date: 21-Dec-23
37. Natural clay-plasma catalysed hydrogenation of carbon-dioxide for methanol production under ambient conditions
PI: Rakesh K. Sharma SERB Rs. 28.73 Lakhs Start Date: 22-Dec-
20 End Date: 21-Dec-23
38. Development of Microelectrode Array for Real-Time Electrochemical Sensing
PI: Ritu Gupta SERB Rs. 18 Lakhs Start Date: 23-Mar-
21 End Date: 22-Mar-24
191
Annual Report 2020_21

39. Mechanical response of sedimentary rocks under extreme conditions:implications for cryogenic fracking
PI: Debanjan Guha Roy DST Rs. 35.00 Lakhs Start Date: 28-June-
19 End Date: 27-Jun-24
40. Utilization of the Inferior Quality Aggregate in Hot, Warm and Cold Mix Asphalt
PI: Bhupendra Singh NHAI Rs.20.76 Lakhs Start Date: 04-Nov-
20 End Date: 03-Nov-23
41. Development of Multimodal Search Framework for Architectural Floor Plan
PI: Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay SERB Rs. 24.58 Lakhs Start Date: 30-Mar-
17 End Date: 29-Oct-20
42. Information Access from Document Images of Indian Languages
PI: Gaurav Harit(as Co-PI) MHRD-MeitY Rs. 80 Lakhs Start Date: 25-Oct-
17 End Date: 31-Mar-21
43. Indian Heritage in Digital Space of Interdisciplinary Cyber Physical Systems
PI: Santanu Chaudhury DST Rs. 1275.55 Lakhs Start Date: 25-Mar-
19 End Date: 24-Mar-22
44. Software as a service for OCR system for Odia Documents Images
PI: Santanu Chaudhury
Co-PI Gaurav Harit MeitY Rs.20.16 Lakhs Start Date: 26-Mar-
19 End Date: 12-Feb-21
45. Digital Representation Generation for Efficient Retrieval of Bangla Document Images in Digital Libraries
PI: Santanu Chaudhury
Co-PI Gaurav Harit MHRD Rs. 76 Lakhs Start Date: 01-Mar-
19 End Date: 31-Jan-20
Closure in-Progress
46. Predictive Maintenance and Quality Control in industries under Industry 4.0
PI: Sumit Kalra
Co-PI Santanu Chaudhury,
Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay SERB Rs. 54.54 Lakhs Start Date: 24-Oct-
19 End Date: 23-Oct-22
47. Understanding Semantic Association Between Visual and Textual Data: What lies ahead
PI: Yashashwi Verma DST Rs. 35 Lakhs Start Date: 29-Nov-
19 End Date: 15-Oct-22
48. Detecting Spoofing and Digital Attacks on Face Images
PI: Richa Singh
Co PI: Mayank Vatsa MeitY Rs. 72.15 Lakhs Start Date: 01-Oct-
19 End Date: 31-Aug-21
49. Text and Image Semantic Graphic
PI: Gaurav Harit MHRD Rs.44.67 Lakhs Start Date 13-May-
19 End Date 12-May-21
50. Detection and Prevention of Forged Obscene Images/Videos in the Social Networks using Machine Learning (A Social Media
Engine for Discovering Doctoring in Obscene Multimedia)
PI: Mayank Vatsa
Co-PI: Richa Singh MHA Rs. 197.28 Lakhs Start Date: 01-May-
20 End Date: 31-Aug-21
51. iHub Drishti
PI: Mayank Vatsa DST Rs. 725 Lakhs Start Date:01-Apr-20 End Date:31-Mar-25
52. Development of Application oriented AI Systems
PI: Deepak Mishra
Co-PI: Amandeep Kaur MeitY Rs. 39.82 Lakhs Start Date: 28-Feb-
20 End Date: 27-Feb-23
53. Management of TBIOM and Newsletter
PI: Mayank Vatsa
Co-PI Richa Singh IEEE Rs. 20.38 Lakhs Start Date: 01-Jan-
19 End Date: 31-Dec-21
192
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

54. Knowledge Discovery from Images containing Text and its application to Audio-Visual Dialogue
PI: Anand Mishra Accenture Rs. 14.64 Lakhs Start Date 01-Jun-20 End Date: 31-May-21
55. Rakshak Project
PI: Santanu Chaudhury iHub Drishti Rs. 100 Lakhs Start Date 04-Aug-
20 End Date: 03-Aug-21
56. Smart Health Solutions for Rapid Mass Diagnosis for COVID-19
PI: Sumit Kalra
Co-PI: Rajendra Nagar,
Anil Kumar Tiwari DST-RAKSHAK Rs. 5 Lakhs Start Date 10-Sep-20 End Date: 09-Sep-21
57. Social Distance Alert and Monitoring System Using Smartphone,IOT and AI
PI: Suman Kundu
Co-PI: Deepak Mishra, Sumit Kalra,
Amandeep Kaur DST-RAKSHAK Rs. 7.50 Lakhs Start Date 05-Oct-20 End Date: 04-Oct-21
58. AI Driven Estimation of COVID-19 Prognosis using Multimodal Data
PI: Deepak Mishra
Co-PI: Rajendra Nagar DST-RAKSHAK Rs. 10 Lakhs Start Date 17-Sep-20 End Date: 16-Sep-21
59. Non-Invasive Estimation of Care-Body Temperature, Heart-Rate, SPO2 for Classification of subject AS Healthy or Non-Healthy
(Symptoms of concern: fever despite ambient temperatures; silent hypoxia-COVID-19)
PI: Romi Banerjee
Co-PI: Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh,
Debarati Bhunia Chakraborty DST-RAKSHAK Rs. 10 Lakhs Start Date 17-Sep-20 End Date: 16-Sep-21
60. AI-driven diagnosis of COVID-19 using X-ray images
PI: Richa Singh
Co-PI: Mayank Vatsa DST-RAKSHAK Rs. 7 Lakhs Start Date 06-Nov-
20 End Date: 05-Nov-21
61. Mitigation Bias in face recognition for vast regional diversity in India
PI: Richa Singh Facebook India
Online Services Pvt.
Ltd. Rs. 21.26 Lakhs Start Date: 17-Dec-
20 End Date: 31-Dec-21
62. Quantum Cryptanalysis
PI: Somitra K. Sanadhya SERB Rs. 6.60 Lakhs Start Date: 04-Feb-
20 End Date: 03-Feb-23
63. Energy Efficient Communication and Data Flow in Smart City using CRN based IoT Framework
PI: Debasis Das DST-Indo-Uzbek Rs. 17.80 Lakhs Start Date: 18-Feb-
21 End Date: 17-Feb-24
64. Special Manpower development Program for Chips to System Design (SMDP-C2SD)/ Design of a Sensor Signal Conditioning
System (I) & Multiprocessor Scheduling Alogrithms using Control Theoretic Approach (II)
PI: Shree Prakash Tiwari
Co-PI: D. M. Fulwani MeitY Rs.60.38 Lakhs Start Date: 11-Aug-
15 End Date: 30-Nov-21
65. Design and development of NavIC Receiver
PI: Arun Kumar Singh MeitY Rs. 64.55 Lakhs Start Date: 18-Oct-
17 End Date: 25-Jan-21
66. Design and Fabrication of Germanium on Silicon near infrared photodetectors
PI: Saravanan Rajamani DST Rs. 19.20 Lakhs Start Date: 9-Aug-17 End Date: 08-Aug-19
67. Substrate Integrated Coaxial Line (SICL) based Circuits and Systems for millimeter wave application
PI: Soumava Mukherjee DST Rs. 35.00 Lakhs Start Date: 20-Sep-
17 End Date: 19-Sep-22
68. High Performance Low Voltage Flexible Organic Field-Efefct Transistors for Circuit and Sensing Applications
PI: Shree Prakash Tiwari SERB Rs. 51.70 Lakhs Start Date: 15-Sep-
18 End Date: 14-Sep-21
193
Annual Report 2020_21

69. Hub and Spoke Consortia for e2W and e3W Electric Drives-Design Development of Prototyping of Advanced IM and
Synchronous Reluctance Drives and Vehicle Integration for e2W and e3W Applications
PI: D. M. Fulwani Department of
Heavy Industry
(NFTDC) Rs. 24.40 Lakhs Start Date: 31-Aug-
18 End Date: 31-Dec-20
70. Experimental Investigation and Performance Evaluation of HARQ Technique for Free-Space Optical Communication Systems
PI: Aashish Mathur SERB Rs. 42.84 Lakhs Start Date: 24-May-
19 End Date: 23-May-22
71. Development of low cost sensors for monitoring of odours in ambient air
PI: Mahesh Kumar SERB Rs. 107.75 Lakhs Start Date: 14-Nov-
19 End Date: 13-Nov-22
72. Development of low cost sensors for monitoring of odours in ambient air
PI: Mahesh Kumar Envirotech
Instruments Pvt. Ltd. Rs. 13 Lakhs Start Date: 14-Nov-
19 End Date: 13-Nov-22
73. Large area synthesis of 2DMoS2structures for low power and fast NO2 Gas Sensor
PI: Mahesh Kumar SERB Rs. 40.81 Lakhs Start Date: 30-Dec-
19 End Date: 29-Dec-22
74. Design And analysis of multi-channel incoherent beam combination system
PI: Arpit Khandelwal DRDO Rs. 9.60 Lakhs Start Date: 21-Jan-
20 End Date: 20-Jan-21
75. Design and Development of Substrate Integrated Waveguide (SIW) and Empty SIW (ESIW) Based RF-Microwave Components
PI: Arani Ali Khan SERB Rs. 25.43 Lakhs Start Date: 26-Dec-
19 End Date: 25-Dec-21
76. Development of System to Mitigate Second Order Harmonic Ripple in AC/DC Microgrid using Advanced Control Techniques
PI: Deepak M Fulwani SERB Rs. 41.47 Lakhs Start Date: 11-Feb-
20 End Date: 10-Feb-23
77. Fundamentals of Photovoltaics
PI: Mahesh Kumar MHRD Rs. 5.68 Lakhs Start Date: 23-May-
20 End Date: 28-Jun-20
78. Establishment of A1-Based Platform to Monitor and Identify Smell,Taste and Key COVID 19 Therapeutic Hotspots
PI: Amandeep Kaur
Co-PI: Dr. K. A. Desai,
Deepak Mishra DST-RAKSHAK Rs. 10 Lakhs Start Date: 17-Sep-
20 End Date: 16-Sep-21
79. Functional Materials
PI: Mahesh Kumar MHRD Rs. 5.68 Lakhs Start Date: 02-Nov-
20 End Date: 11-Dec-20
80. Angel-resolved photoelectron (ARPES) studies of doped 2DMoS2
PI: Mahesh Kumar UGC-DAE Rs. 1.35 Lakhs Start Date: 05-Mar-
20 End Date: 04-Mar-23
81. A Programmable CMOS image sensor for high speed, low power and low noise applications
PI: Amandeep Kaur SERB Rs. 27.22 Lakhs Start Date: 19-Dec-
20 End Date: 18-Dec-22
82. Nanostructured Metal Oxides for Efficient Detection of Breast Cancer
PI: Saakshi Dhanekar SERB Rs. 10.60 Lakhs Start Date: 15-Sep-
20 End Date: 10-Aug-21
83. Secure and Robust Coordination and Control of Autonomous Multi-Vehicle Systems with Desired Constraints
PI: Anoop Jain SERB Rs. 29.84 Lakhs Start Date: 25-Dec-
20 End Date: 24-Dec-22
84. Object Based Spatial 3D Audio Rendering for Augmented and Virtual Reality Applications
PI: Manish Narwaria SERB Rs. 25.84 Lakhs Start Date: 22-Dec-
20 End Date: 21-Dec-22
194
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

85. Design, fabrication and characterization of all-fiber Multimode Interference (MMI) device for generating highly pure
Laguerre-Gaussian (LG) mode in free-space
PI: Nitin Bhatia SERB Rs. 28.72 Lakhs Start Date: 25-Dec-
20 End Date: 24-Dec-22
86. Data-driven Haptic Modeling and Rendering of Normal Interaction on Inhomogeneous Viscoelastic Deformable Objects
PI: Amit Bhardwaj SERB Rs. 33 Lakhs Start Date: 23-Dec-
20 End Date: 22-Dec-22
87. Perception-Theoretic Approach for Quantifying Robustness of Machine Learning Models
PI: Manish Narwaria SERB Rs. 6.60 Lakhs Start Date: 11-Jan-
20 End Date: 10-Jan-24
88. A Robust Visual Positioning System
PI: Himanshu Kumar SERB Rs. 25.80 Lakhs Start Date: 27-Jan-
21 End Date: 26-Jan-23
89. Ga2O3-based nanomaterials with controlled defect and impurity composition for advanced electronic devices
PI: Mahesh Kumar DST-BRICS Rs. 41.98 Lakhs Start Date: 14-Oct-
20 End Date: 13-Oct-23
90. Development of low-cost portable vent
PI: Mahesh Kumar MHRD Rs. 1 Lakh Start Date: 31-Mar-
21 End Date: 14-Oct-21
91. Wisdom as Cognitive and motivational-emotional heuristics in ecologically rational decision making
PI: Ankita Sharma SERB Rs. 22.30 Lakhs Start Date: 29-Apr-
15 End Date: 28-Apr-18
Closure in-Progress
Institute Projects
92. Jodhpur City Knowledge and Innovation Cluster (JCKIC)
PI: Santanu Chaudhury
Co-PI: S. R. Vadera Office of PSA Rs. 949.70 Lakhs Start Date: 29-Jul-20 End Date: 28-July-23
93. Validation of Jodhpur Instrumented Kursi Against Dual Energy X-Ray Absorptiometry to Diagnose Sarcopenia in Older
Indians
PI: Vivek Vijay
Co-PI: Sandeep K. Yadav ICMR Rs. 11.01 Lakhs Start Date: 01-Oct-
19 End Date: 30-Sep-20
94. Eigenvalue type problems related to linear and quasi-linear operators
PI: Abhishek Sarkar DST Rs. 35 Lakhs Start Date: 01-Apr-
19 End Date: 31-Mar-24
95. On Graph Induced Symbolic Dynamics
PI: Puneet Sharma DST/SERB Rs. 6.60 Lakhs Start Date: 21-Feb-
20 End Date: 20-Feb-23
96. DST-Inspire Faculty Fellowship Project
PI: Deepak Kumar Mahanta
Mentor: Abhishek Sarkar DST Rs. 4.51 Lakhs Start Date: 11-Jan-
21 End Date: 10-Jan-26
97. Thermoelectric Performance Study Using First-Principles Calculations Based Methods
PI: Appala Naidu Gandi SERB Rs. 22.59 Lakhs Start Date: 02-Apr-
19 End Date: 01-Apr-22
98. Design and Fabrication of Indigenous Powder Fed Metal Additive Manufacturing Machine
PI: Ravi, K. R. DST Rs. 215.50 Lakhs Start Date: 01-Aug-
19 End Date: 31-Jul-22
195
Annual Report 2020_21

99. Quantitative assessment of Hot tearing characteristics of Aerospace Magnesium Alloys
PI: Ravi, K. R. ARDB Rs. 5.77 Lakhs Start Date: 05-Aug-
19 End Date: 31-Dec-20
100. Chemical Reactions and Energy Transfer in Atmospheric N2/O2/Ar-Boron Nitride Surface Collisions: Applications in
Modelling Spacecraft Materials
PI: Moumita Majumdar
Mentor: B. P. Kashyap DST Rs. 33.63 Lakhs Start Date: 30-Nov-
19 End Date: 29-Nov-22
101. Study of the Efefcts of Stress-State and Strain-Rate on Constitutive Response of Polymer Gels via Experiments and
Continuum Mechanics Modeling
PI: Abir Bhattacharya SERB Rs. 30.60 Lakhs Start Date: 21-Dec-
19 End Date: 20-Dec-21
102. Novel in-situ volume contractible metal halide negative electrodes for high performance lithium-ion batteries
PI: Srijan Sengupta SERB Rs. 31.07 Lakhs Start Date: 17-Oct-
20 End Date: 04-Mar-23
103. Development of an AI platform for Human Health
PI: Santanu Chaudhury
Co-PI Sushmita Jha, Sushmita Paul,
Sumit Kalra, K. A. Desai MeitY Rs. 386.54 Lakhs Start Date: 02-Mar-
20 End Date: 01-Mar-23
104. Investigation of magnetoelectric coupling in Cil-xTMxO Multiferroic System
PI: Ambesh Dixit BRNS (DAE) Rs. 23.42 Lakhs Start Date: 27-Mar-
14 End Date: 26-Mar-17
Project extension is
in-progress
105. Probing Magnetic Structures and Spin Flop transition in bulk and nanostructured FeVo4 Multoferroic System
PI: Ambesh Dixit DST Rs. 6.60 Lakhs Start Date: 13-Jan-
16 End Date: 31-Dec-19
Project extension is
in-progress
106. Magnetars with superfluid core
PI: Monika Sinha SERB Rs. 20.60 Lakhs Start Date: 21-Mar-
18 End Date: 20-Mar-21
107. Possibilities and Device Applications of Degenerate Optical Microcavities
PI: Somnath Ghosh SERB Rs. 34.89 Lakhs Start Date: 09-May-
18 End Date: 08-Sep-21
108. Synthesis and study of properties of electrochemically active composites based on lithium intercalated silicates of iron,
manganese, cobalt and having high electron conductivity corbosilicides of transition metal
PI: Ambesh Dixit DST Rs. 23.31 Lakhs Start Date: 22-Nov-
18 End Date: 07-May-21
109. Generation of Entangled Photons and its application to Quantum Computation and Information Processing
PI: V Narayanan
Co-PI: Subhashish Banerjee DST Rs. 208.92 Lakhs Start Date: 24-Apr-
19 End Date: 23-Apr-22
110. Sulphur nanoparticles Reinforced Hierarchical Assemblies of Carbon nanotubes for Efficient Lithium-Sulphur Batteries
PI: Shahab Ahmad DST Rs. 86.86 Lakhs Start Date: 9-Oct-19 End Date: 8-Oct-22
111. Photo-Rechargeable Organo-Halide Perovskite-Transition Metal Dichalcogenide Batteries
PI: Shahab Ahmad SERB Rs. 48.98 Lakhs Start Date: 22-Mar-
19 End Date: 21-Mar-22
196
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

112. Electronic and thermoelectric properties of Bi2Te3-XSX and Sb2Te3-xSX: A density functional theory approach and scanning
tunneling microscopy study of surface states for enhancement of thermoelectric efficiency
PI: Satyajit Sahu DRDO Rs. 9.80 Lakhs Start Date: 9-Jul-20 End Date: 8-Jul-21
113. Photo-Rechargeable Rechargeable Perovskite Batteries for Future Mobility.
PI: Shahab Ahmad DST Rs. 27.65 Lakhs Start Date: 3-Oct-18 End Date: 2-Oct-20
114. Cold Plasma Detergent in the environment to fight COVID-19
PI: Ram Prakash Porte Automations
Pvt. Ltd. Rs. 23.60 Lakhs Start Date: 4-Jun-20 End Date: 20-Jun-21
115. Uniquely Identifying Lorentz Structure of New Physics in Semi-Leptonic B-Decays
PI: Ashutosh K Alok SERB Rs. 22.18 Lakhs Start Date: 28-Dec-
20 End Date: 27-Dec-23
116. Study of Very High Energy Gamma-Rays from Galactic sources by Grapes-3 observatory
PI: Reetanjali Mohrana SERB Rs. 26.07 Lakhs Start Date: 26-Nov-
20 End Date: 25-Nov-22
117. Design and Development of Dielectric Barrier Discharge Based Flat VUV/UV Excimer Light Sources for Advanced Applications
in Health and Medicine
PI: Ram Prakash
Co-PI: Ambesh Dixit & Neha Jain SERB Rs. 62.13 Lakhs Start Date: 30-Dec-
20 End Date: 29-Dec-23
118. High voltage(~5V) ultrafast charging/discharging cathode materials in bulk and nano geometries for high power Li-Ion
rechargeable batteries
PI: Ambesh Dixit
CO-PI: Ram Prakash SERB Rs. 40.26 Lakhs Start Date: 28-Dec-
20 End Date: 27-Dec-23
119. Engineering the interface of perovskites and 2D materials
PI: Lakshya Daukiya
Mentor: S. R.Vadera DST Rs. 110.00 Lakhs Start Date: 2-Nov-20 End Date: 1-Nov-25
120. Fabrication of Atomically Thin, Ultrafast and Ultrasensitive Photodetectors Based on 2D-2D van der Waals (vdW)
Heterostructures of Graphene with W Based TMDs
PI: Vijay Kumar Singh
: Ambesh Dixit DST Rs. 110.00 Lakhs Start Date: 1-Jan-21 End Date: 31-Dec-26
121. Design and Development of Multiferroic Materials for Photovoltaic and Energy Harvesting Application.
PI: Priyambada Sahoo
Mentor: Ambesh Dixit DST Rs. 4.52 Lakhs Start Date: 06-Nov-
20 End Date: 05-Nov-25
122. Lead free perovskite based semiconducting materials and devices for photovoltaic and photodetector applications
PI: Surbhi Ramawat
Mentor: Ambesh Dixit DST Rs. 4.52 Lakhs Start Date: 07-Nov-
20 End Date: 06-Nov-25
123. Two-dimensional TMDC and QD based hybrid phototransistor with high sensitivity and mobility
PI: Chayan Das
Mentor: Satyajit Sahu DST Rs. 4.52 Lakhs Start Date: 21-Oct-
20 End Date: 20-Oct-25
124. Development of Transparent, Durable superhydrophobic-coating for self cleaning of endoscope
PI: Ram Prakash MSME Rs. 10.50 Lakhs Start Date: 31-Mar-
21 End Date: 30-Mar-22
125. Hybrid reactionless manipulation and visual serving of a satellite mounted robot for autonomous on orbit services
PI: Suril V. Shah DST Rs. 35 Lakhs Start Date: 27-Jan-
16 End Date: 28-Nov-18
Project extension is
in-progress
126. Development of Highly Efficient Low Cost Insulation for power plants
PI: S. Mukhopadhyay MHRD Rs. 93.47 Lakhs Start Date: 7-May-18 End Date: 6-May-21
197
Annual Report 2020_21

127. Cascaded Latent Heat Storage (CLHS) for high temperature CSP applications material development and characterization to
lab-scale setup
PI: P. R. Chakraborty
Co-PI: Laltu Chandra, Ambesh
Dixit, Saptarshi Basu DST Rs. 58.44 Lakhs Start Date: 3-Aug-18 End Date: 2-Aug-21
128. Performance Testing of ACC Tube Bundles Along with Establishing Their Theoretical Correlation
PI: Hardik Kothadia Thermax SPX Energy
Technologies
Limited Rs. 29.15 Lakhs Start Date: 27-Mar-
19 End Date: 31-Mar-20
Project extension is
in-progress
129. Development of lead free piezoelectric based Nano-generator: Modeling, Simulator and Experimental Realization
PI: Barun Pratiher
Co-PI: Ambesh Dixit SERB Rs. 53.54 Lakhs Start Date: 23-May-
19 End Date: 22-May-22
130. Development of Paired Neck Chamber Device for Assessment of Baroreflex Sensitivity
PI: K. A. Desai Co-PI: Suril V. Shah DST Rs. 26.32 Lakhs Start Date: 1-Aug-19 End Date: 31-Jul-21
131. Design and Analysis of Indigenous Autopilot System for Quadrotor
PI: C. Venkatesan
Co-PI: Arpit Khandelwal,
Suril V. Shah DRDO Rs. 9.96 Lakhs Start Date: 1-Dec-19 End Date: 26-Feb-21
132. Development of Light-weight and Flexible Multi-link Robotic Manipulator Mounted on Mobile Platform: Modelling,
Simulation and Physical Realization
PI: Barun Pratiher SERB Rs. 39.64 Lakhs Start Date: 21-Nov-
19 End Date: 20-Nov-22
133. Mitigation of weldability issues and residual stresses in dissimilar welded joints of ultra-supercritical power plants
PI: Chandan Pandey SERB Rs. 25.27 Lakhs Start Date: 1-Jan-20 End Date: 31-Dec-21
134. Shock Wave Interaction with Various Interfaces
PI: Arun Kumar, R. DST Rs. 35 Lakhs Start Date: 3-Oct-18 End Date: 2-Oct-23
135. Reactionless Maneuvering and Visual Servoing for Space Flying Robot and Half Humanoid
PI: Suril V. Shah
Co-PI: K. A. Desai & C. Venkatesan ISRO Rs. 43.86 Lakhs Start Date: 1-Jun-20 End Date: 31-May-22
136. Dynamic Studies for Half-humanoid and Spaceflying Robot
PI: Suril V. Shah
Co-PI: C. Venkatesan ISRO Rs. 16.84 Lakhs Start Date: 1-Jun-20 End Date: 31-May-22
137. Multiphysics Modeling & Analysis of Energy Technologies & Systems.
PI: Shobhana Singh MHRD Rs. 05.68 Lakhs Start Date: 14-Mar-
20 End Date: 14-Aug-20
138. Design and Development of Indigenous On-board Autopilot and Vision-based Navigation Systems for Autonomous Flight of
Hover Capable Rotary-wing Vehicles
PI: Suril V. Shah
Co-PI: D. M. Fulwani, Arpit
Khandelwal, K. A. Desai, C.
Chattopadhyay, C. Venkatesan SERB Rs. 46.22 Lakhs Start Date: 20-Mar-
20 End Date: 19-Mar-23
139. Personal Use facial fit trails of reusable ceramic respirators being manufactured at Bhopalgarh for use towards preventing
spread of air borne diseases
PI: Anand K. Plappally
Co-PI: Ravi K. R., Rajendra Nagar,
and V. Narayanan MHRD Rs. 0.89 Lakhs Start Date: 3-Jul-20 End Date: 2-Jan-21
140. Design of ice freezing type heat exchanger and optimization of size, weight and power of heat exchanger
PI: Hardik Kothadia
Co-PI: P. R. Chakraborty,
Shobhana Singh DRDO Rs. 9.88 Lakhs Start Date: 1-Aug-20 End Date: 31-Jul-21
198
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

141. Cross Flows Flapping Jets for Supersonic Mixing Enhancement
PI: Arun Kumar, R.
Co-PI: Hardik Kothadia ARDB Rs. 24.89 Lakhs Start Date: 30-Sep-
20 End Date: 29-Sep-23
142. Understanding The Deformation Mechanisms Under In-Plane Shear and Role of Pre-Twining on Formability Behavior of
AZ31-Xca Mg Alloy Sheets
PI: Jaiveer Singh SERB Rs. 32.99 Lakhs Start Date: 24-Nov-
20 End Date: 23-Nov-22
143. Owl-inspired aerodynamic noise reduction of a flapping wing unmanned aerial vehicle
PI: Nipun Arora SERB Rs. 29.48 Lakhs Start Date: 3-Dec-20 End Date: 2-Dec-22
144. Input Shaping Control Strategies for Mitigating Residual Vibrations and Viscoelastic Creep in Electrically Driven Dielectric
Elastomer Actuators
PI: Atul Kumar Sharma DST Rs. 35 Lakhs Start Date 1-Dec-20 End Date: 30-Nov-25
145. Highly conductive nanocomposite fibers for flexible temperature sensors (Flextem)
PI: Shrutidhara Sarma SERB Rs. 27.60 Lakhs Start Date: 3-Dec-20 End Date: 2-Dec-22
146. Lab-On-Paper for inexpensive point of care diagnostics
PI: Ankur Gupta SERB Rs. 32.38 Lakhs Start Date: 19-Dec-
20 End Date: 18-Dec-22
147. Film cooling for Ejector diffuser system in High Altitude Testing Facility
PI: Arun Kumar, R.
Co PI: Hardik Kothdia ISRO Rs. 27.34 Lakhs Start Date: 29-Mar-
21 End Date: 28-Mar-23
1. Separation of fine iron particles from organic powders to less than 10 ppm
PI: Pradip Kumar Tiwari Uma Laxmi Organics
Pvt. Ltd. Rs. 0.33 Lakhs Start Date: 01-Feb-
20 End Date: N/A
2. Vetting of hydraulic designs related to Rajeev Gandhi Lift Canal (RGLC) System
PI: Pradip Kumar Tiwari PHED-Rajasthan Rs. 0.50 Lakhs Start Date: 01-Jul-20 End Date: N/A
3. Towards the development of low-cost water quality sensors
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma Panasonic R&D
Center of India Rs. 02.35 Lakhs Start Date: 01-Oct-
14 End Date: N/A
4. Towards the development of low-cost water quality sensors
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma Panasonic R&D
Center of India Rs. 64.37 Lakhs Start Date: 16-Feb-
15 End Date: N/A
5. Utilization of hydrogen as fuel in cement production
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma Ultratech Cement Rs. 10 Lakhs Start Date: 01-Oct-
19 End Date: N/A
Consultancy Projects
199
Annual Report 2020_21

6. Strengthening Handwriting Recognition & Smart Annotation
PI: Gaurav Harit
Co-PI Santanu Chaudhury Samsung India
Electronics Pvt. Ltd. Rs. 13.82 Lakhs Start Date: 03-July-
19 End Date: N/A
7. Source code similarity
PI: Sumit Kalra Growth Pond Rs. 1 Lakh Start Date: 12-Oct-
20 End Date: N/A
8. Voice and Video Analytics
PI: Himanshu Kumar Phimetrics Telecom
VAS Pvt. Ltd. Rs. 02.00 Lakhs Start Date: 30-Jan-
20 End Date: N/A
9. Research Advisory
PI: Sandeep K. Yadav Spanidea Systems
Pvt. Ltd. Rs. 11.04 Lakhs Start Date: 01-Feb-
21 End Date: N/A
10. Short term course on Helicopter dynamics and handling qualities
PI: Suril V. Shah
Co-PI C. Venkatesan DRDO Rs. 03.72 Lakhs Start Date: 15-Feb-
17 End Date: N/A
11. Visual Servoing of Mobile Manipulator with application to smart warehouse and smart factory
PI: Suril V. Shah Tata Consultancy
Limited Rs. 10.12 Lakhs Start Date: 01-Jul-17 End Date: N/A
12. Helicopter Dynamics and Handling Quality
PI: C. Venkatesan ASTE Bangalore Rs. 03.42 Lakhs Start Date: 10-Dec-
18 End Date: N/A
13. 01 mw Microgrid based solar power plant at Military Station Brichgunj (Port Blair) under Military engineering services Port
Blair
PI: Barun Pratiher RAMA Reflection
Pvt. Ltd. Rs. 0.70 Lakhs Start Date: 10-Sep-
19 End Date: N/A
14. Modeling of Laser Ignition of Coal
PI: S. Mukhopadhyay GE India Industrial
Pvt. Ltd. Rs. 1.53 Lakhs Start Date: 02-Jul-20 End Date: N/A
15. Visioning for Imagining the future of DSM in post pandemic world
PI: Sanklap Pratap Park Life Invocations Rs. 4.50 Lakhs Start Date: 26-Nov-
20 End Date: N/A
16. Analysis of Fiberglass Mast Tower due to Wind Load
PI: Amit Kumar Rathi Ercon Composites
Jodhpur Rs. 1.65 Lakhs Start Date: 15-Mar-
21 End Date: N/A
200
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

1. Biomimetic Nanoscale Metal-Organic Frameworks for Targeted Near-Infrared Fluorescence Imaging and Phototherapeutic
Destruction of Intraperitoneal Tumors
PI: Raviraj Vankayala DBT -
Ramalingaswami
Fellowship Rs. 42.50 Lakhs Start Date: 11-Feb-
20 End Date: 10-Feb-25
2. Young Faculty Research Fellowship (YFRF) of Visvesvaraya PhD Scheme
PI: Gaurav Harit MeitY Rs. 22.20 Lakhs Start Date: 22-Jan-
18 End Date:30-Sep-20
3. Swarnajayanti Fellowship
PI: Mayank Vatsa DST Rs. 63.33 Lakhs Start Date: 01-Apr-
19 End Date: 31-Mar-24
4. Visvesvaraya PhD Scholarship scheme for Electronics & IT(Part-1) Media Lab Asia
PI: A. K. Tiwari Rs. 216.34 Lakhs Start Date: 01-Jan-
14 End Date:31-03-20
5. Visvesvaraya PhD Scholarship scheme for Electronics & IT(Part-2)
PI: A. K. Tiwari Media Lab Asia Rs. 151.71 Lakhs Start Date: 21-Oct-
14 End Date: 31-Mar-21
6. Young Faculty Research Fellowship (YFRF) of Visvesvaraya PhD Scheme
PI: Shree Prakash Tiwari MeitY Rs. 37 Lakhs Start Date: 24-Jan-
18 End Date:23-Apr-21
7. Young Faculty Research Fellowship (YFRF) of Visvesvaraya PhD Scheme
PI: D. M. Fulwani MeitY Rs. 37 Lakhs Start Date: 01-Feb-
18 End Date:23-Jul-21
8. Design and Development of Metal Oxide Hole Transporting Material (HTM) based Inverted Perovskite Solar Cell (iPSC) Under
Ambient Conditions
PI: Ambesh Dixit DST Rs. 21.18 Lakhs Start Date: 26-Sep-
18 End Date:25-Sep-23
Sponsored Fellowship Projects
201
Annual Report 2020_21

1. Workshop on Computational Biology and Bioinformatics
PI: Sushmita Paul SERB - IITJ Rs. 2.70 Lakhs Start Date: 26-Jun-
19 End Date: 25-Dec-19
Closure in-Progress
2. Bioengineering Solution for healthcare, food, energy
PI: Meenu Chabbra Registration Fees Rs. 00.75 Lakhs Start Date: 31-Mar-
21 End Date: 10-Apr-21
3. ICVGIP 2020 Conference
PI: Gaurav Harit Registration Fees Rs. 0.30 Lakhs Start Date: 19-Dec-
20 End Date: 21-Dec-20
4. Unnat Bhart Abhiyan
PI: Ananya Debnath MHRD Rs. 03.77 Lakhs Start Date: 06-Mar-
17 End Date: 05-Mar-20
5. 64th DAE Solid State Physics Symposium
PI: Mahesh Kumar DAE Rs 20 Lakhs Start Date: 16-Jul-19 End Date: 22-Dec-19
Closure Pending
6. IITJ-SICI Golden Jubilee conference and lecture series grant (GJCLSG)
PI: Farhat Naz Shastri Indo
Canadian Institute
(SICI) Rs. 0.20 Lakhs Start Date: 26-Feb-
21 End Date: 26-Feb-21
7. TEW on Linear Algebra & Its Application
PI: Dilpreet kaur National Center of
Mathematics Rs. 01.45 Lakhs Start Date: 19-Nov-
20 End Date: 13-Dec-20
8. Popular Talk on Bernstein Polynomials, Computer-Aided Geometric Design and Real Algebraic Applications
PI: Dilpreet Kaur National Center of
Mathematics Rs. 0.09 Lakhs Start Date: 12-Feb-
20 End Date: 12-Feb-20
9. Ishaan Vikas Program 2016
PI: Barun Pratiher
Co-PI K. A. Desai MHRD Rs. 02.57 Lakhs Start Date: 04-Jul-16 End Date:16-Jul-16
Project extension in
progress
Other Projects
202
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

10. ICSSP Conference
PI: Ravi, K. R. ICSSP Rs. 03.19 Lakhs Start Date: 06-Aug-
19 End Date: 31-Dec-21
11. Unnat Bhart Abhiyan (RCI)
PI: Anand K. Plappally IIT Delhi Rs. 5 Lakhs Start Date: 31-Mar-
19 End Date: 31-Mar-20
12. Faculty Development Program on Quantum Science and Technology
PI: Subhashish Banerjee DST Rs. 01.80 Lakhs Start Date: 18-Aug-
19 End Date: 30-Aug-19
13. Quantum Information and Computation 2019
PI: Subhashish Banerjee Multiple Agencies
(DRDO and other
Pvt. Agency) Rs 01.45 Lakh Start date: 08-Dec-
19 End Date: 11-Dec-
19
1. Muc-1 receptor targeted nano-liposome containing peptide-drug-nanocage for breast cancer and cancer stem cell
PI: Surajit Ghosh DBT Rs 17.54 Lakhs Start date: 22-Oct-19 End Date: 31-Mar-
20
2. Development of anti-alzheimer peptide from taxol pocket of β-tubulin
PI: Surajit Ghosh SERB Rs. 57.24 Lakhs Start Date: 22-Oct-19 End Date: 31-Dec-19
3. Deposition of Particulate matter in Lungs
Completed Projects
203
Annual Report 2020_21

PI: Sushmita Jha BRNS Rs. 26.78 Lakhs Start Date: 12-Mar-14 End Date: 31-Mar-19
4. DST Subject Expert Committee (SEC)- Life Science Meeting
PI: Priyanka Singh DST Rs. 12.30 Lakhs Start Date: 06-Feb-19 End Date: 31-Mar-20
5. Automorphism Groups of Induced Symbolic Systems
PI: Puneet Sharma NBHM Rs. 03.32 Lakhs Start date 31-Mar-17 End date 30-Mar-20
6. Thermal Design of PCM Cool and Warm Vest
PI: P. R. Chakraborty
Co-PI: Akshay Prakash DRDO, Jodhpur Rs. 09.96 Lakhs Start Date: 02-Dec-15 End Date: 30-Sep-19
204
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

7. Transforming Healthcare Through Tech-dinor
PI: Sandeep K. Yadav IBM Rs. 14.25 Lakhs Start Date: 02-Dec-14 End Date: 01-Dec-16
8. Computationally efficient fixed complexity sphere decodes for multiuser MIMO communications
PI: Arun Kumar Singh SERB Rs. 22.82 Lakhs Start Date: 13-Jan-16 End Date: 12-Jan-19
9. Noise-enhanced Edge-preserving Image Denoising using Stochastic Resonance
PI: Rajalaxmi Chouhan SERB Rs. 26.64 Lakhs Start Date: 17-Mar-17 End Date: 16-Sep-20
205
Annual Report 2020_21

10. Design and Development of Midrange (≥10 km) RF Transceiver system to transmit Nuclear Radiation Sensor Data
PI: Arpit Khandelwal DRDO Rs. 9.60 Lakhs Start Date: 20-Dec-18 End Date: 16-Feb-20
Key of sponsoring agencies
1.	
ADRB - Aeronautical Research & Development Board
2.	
BRNS - Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences
3.	
DBT - Department of Biotechnology
4.	
Department of Heavy Industry (NFTDC) - Nonferrous Materials Technology Development Centre (NFTDC), Hyderabad
5.	
DRDO - Defense Research & Development Organisation
6.	
DST-BRICS - Department of Science & Technology (Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa)
7.	
DST-FIST - Department of Science & Technology - Fund for Improvement of S&T Infrastructure
8.	
ICMR - Indian Council of Medical Research
9.	
IEEE - Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
10. ISRO - Indian Space Research Organisation
11. MeitY - Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology
12. MHA - Ministry of Home Affairs
13. MHRD (GIAN) - Ministry of Human Resources Development (Global Initiative for Academic Networks)
14. MSME - Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises
15. NHAI - National Highways Authority of India
16. PSA - Principal Scientific Advisor
17. SERB - Science & Engineering Research Board
18. UGC-DAE - University Grants Commission - Department of Atomic Energy
206
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Patents
Department of Chemistry
1.	
Title of Patent: Sunlight driven H2 production by water splitting from nanocomposite heterostructure and preparation method 
thereof
Inventors: Kiran Shejale, Devika Laishram, Arun Kumar, Rakesh K.Sharma
Date of Publication: 18-Sep-2020
Patent application no. : 201911008783
2.	
Title of Patent: Metal nanoparticles doped hollow carbon nanobubbles and preparation method thereof
Inventors: Kiran Shejale, Devika Laishram, Rakesh K. Sharma
Date of Publication: 06-Nov-2020
Patent application no. : 201911017622
Department of Electrical Engineering
3.	
Title of Patent: Image Compression for Transmission
Inventors: Anil K Tiwari, Kumar Rahul
Date of Publication: 09-Oct-2020
Patent application no. : 201911014120
Department of Bioscience and 
Bioengineering
Journal Papers
1.	
Adak, A., Das, G., Khan, J., Mukherjee, N., Gupta, V., Mallesh, 
R., & Ghosh, S. (2020). Extracellular Matrix (ECM)-Mimicking 
Neuroprotective Injectable Sulfo-Functionalized Peptide 
Hydrogel for Repairing Brain Injury. ACS Biomaterials 
Science & Engineering, 6(4), 2287–2296. ISSN: 2373-9878. 
https://doi.org/10.1021/acsbiomaterials.9b01829
2.	
Agrawal, I., & Jha, S. (2020). Comprehensive review of ASC 
structure and function in immune homeostasis and disease. 
Molecular Biology Reports, 47(4), 3077–3096. ISSN: 0301-
4851. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11033-020-05345-2
3.	
Agrawal, I., & Jha, S. (2020). Mitochondrial Dysfunction 
and Alzheimer’s Disease: Role of Microglia. Frontiers in 
Aging Neuroscience, 12, 252. ISSN: 1663-4365. https://doi.
org/10.3389/fnagi.2020.00252
4.	
Agrawal, I., Saxena, S., Nair, P., Jha, D., & Jha, S. (2020). 
Obtaining Human Microglia from Adult Human Brain Tissue. 
Journal of Visualized Experiments, (162), 61438. ISSN: 1940-
087X. https://doi.org/10.3791/61438
& Jha, S. (2021). Dopamine induces functional extracellular 
traps in microglia. IScience, 24(1), 101968. ISSN: 2589-0042. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.isci.2020.101968
6.	
Arora, N., Kaur, R., Rawat, S. S., Kumar, A., Singh, A. K., 
Tripathi, S., Mishra, A., Singh, G., & Prasad, A. (2020). 
Evaluation of Taenia solium cyst fluid-based enzyme 
linked immunoelectro transfer blot for Neurocysticercosis 
diagnosis in urban and highly endemic rural population of 
North India. Clinica Chimica Acta, 508, 16–21. ISSN: 0009-
8981. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cca.2020.05.006
7.	
Bhasne, K., Jain, N., Karnawat, R., Arya, S., Majumdar, A., 
Singh, A., & Mukhopadhyay, S. (2020). Discerning Dynamic 
Signatures of Membrane-Bound α-Synuclein Using Site-
Specific Fluorescence Depolarization Kinetics. The Journal 
of Physical Chemistry B, 124(5), 708–717. ISSN: 1520-6106, 
1520-5207. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcb.9b09118
8.	
Das, G., Ghosh, S., Garg, S., Ghosh, S., Jana, A., Samat, R., 
Mukherjee, N., Roy, R., & Ghosh, S. (2020). An overview 
of key potential therapeutic strategies for combat in the 
COVID-19 battle. RSC Advances, 10(47), 28243–28266. ISSN: 
2046-2069. https://doi.org/10.1039/D0RA05434H
9.	
Das, G., Mukherjee, N., & Ghosh, S. (2020). Neurological 
Insights of COVID-19 Pandemic. ACS Chemical 
Neuroscience, 11(9), 1206–1209. ISSN: 1948-7193. https://
doi.org/10.1021/acschemneuro.0c00201
Publications
Patents & Publications
208
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

10. Dey, P., Pal, S. K., Banerjee, I., & Sarkar, R. (2020). Effect of 
addition of B2O3 to the sol-gel synthesized 45S5 bioglass. 
Journal of the Australian Ceramic Society, 56(4), 1309–1322. 
ISSN: 2510-1560, 2510-1579. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s41779-020-00476-y
11. Fabre, L., Ntreh, A. T., Yazidi, A., Leus, I. V., Weeks, J. W., 
Bhattacharyya, S., Ruickoldt, J., Rouiller, I., Zgurskaya, H. I., 
& Sygusch, J. (2021). A “Drug Sweeping” State of the TriABC 
Triclosan Efflux Pump from Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 
Structure, 29(3), 261-274.e6. ISSN: 0969-2126. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.str.2020.09.001
12. Gallaud, E., Ramdas Nair, A., Horsley, N., Monnard, A., Singh, 
P., Pham, T. T., Salvador Garcia, D., Ferrand, A., & Cabernard, 
C. (2020). Dynamic centriolar localization of Polo and 
Centrobin in early mitosis primes centrosome asymmetry. 
PLOS Biology, 18(8), e3000762. ISSN: 1545-7885. https://doi.
org/10.1371/journal.pbio.3000762
13. Ghosh, S., Garg, S., & Ghosh, S. (2020). Cell-Derived Exosome 
Therapy: A Novel Approach to Treat Post-traumatic Brain 
Injury Mediated Neural Injury. ACS Chemical Neuroscience, 
11(14), 2045–2047. ISSN: 1948-7193. https://doi.
org/10.1021/acschemneuro.0c00368
14. Gupta, N., Khatoon, N., Mishra, A., Verma, V. K., & Prajapati, 
V. K. (2020). Structural vaccinology approach to investigate 
the virulent and secretory proteins of Bacillus anthracis 
for devising anthrax next-generation vaccine. Journal of 
Biomolecular Structure and Dynamics, 38(16), 4895–4905. 
ISSN: 0739-1102. https://doi.org/10.1080/07391102.2019.16
88197
15. Gupta, N., Regar, H., Verma, V. K., Prusty, D., Mishra, A., & 
Prajapati, V. K. (2020). Receptor-ligand based molecular 
interaction to discover adjuvant for immune cell TLRs to 
develop next-generation vaccine. International Journal of 
Biological Macromolecules, 152, 535–545. ISSN: 0141-8130. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.02.297
16. Hanley, T. M., Vankayala, R., Mac, J. T., Lo, D. D., & Anvari, B. 
(2020). Acute Immune Response of Micro- and Nanosized 
Erythrocyte-Derived Optical Particles in Healthy Mice. 
Molecular Pharmaceutics, 17(10), 3900–3914. ISSN: 
1543-8384, 1543-8392. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.
molpharmaceut.0c00641
17. Hasda, A. M., Vuppaladadium, S. S. R., Qureshi, D., Prasad, 
G., Mohanty, B., Banerjee, I., Shaikh, H., Anis, A., Sarkar, P., & 
Pal, K. (2020). Graphene oxide reinforced nanocomposite 
oleogels improves corneal permeation of drugs. Journal of 
Drug Delivery Science and Technology, 60, 102024. ISSN: 
1773-2247. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jddst.2020.102024
18. Huber, A., Killy, B., Grummel, N., Bodendorfer, B., Paul, S., 
Wiesmann, V., … Lang, R. (2020). Mycobacterial Cord Factor 
Reprograms the Macrophage Response to IFN-γ towards
Enhanced Inflammation Yet Impaired Antigen Presentation 
and Expression of GBP1. Journal of Immunology (Baltimore, 
Md.: 1950), 205(6), 1580–1592. ISSN: 1550-6606. https://doi.
org/10.4049/jimmunol.2000337
19. Jaiswal, S., & Singh, P. (2021). Centrosome dysfunction in 
human diseases. Seminars in Cell & Developmental Biology, 
110, 113–122. ISSN: 1084-9521. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
semcdb.2020.04.019
20. Jaiswal, S., Kasera, H., Jain, S., Khandelwal, S., & Singh, P. 
(2021). Centrosome: A Microtubule Nucleating Cellular 
Machinery. Journal of the Indian Institute of Science, 101(1). 
ISSN: 0970-4140. https://doi.org/10.1007/s41745-020-
00213-1
21. Joshi, N., Nagar, N., Gulati, K., Gangele, K., Mishra, 
A., Kumar, D., & Poluri, K. M. (2020). Dissecting the 
differential structural and dynamics features of CCL2 
chemokine orthologs. International Journal of Biological 
Macromolecules, 156, 239–251. ISSN: 0141-8130. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.04.067
22. Joshi, V., Upadhyay, A., Prajapati, V. K., & Mishra, A. (2020). 
How autophagy can restore proteostasis defects in multiple 
diseases? Medicinal Research Reviews, 40(4), 1385–1439. 
ISSN: 1098-1128. https://doi.org/10.1002/med.21662
23. Kaur, R., Arora, N., Jamakhani, M. A., Malik, S., Kumar, 
P., Anjum, F., Tripathi, S., Mishra, A., & Prasad, A. (2020). 
Development of multi-epitope chimeric vaccine against 
Taenia solium by exploring its proteome: an in silico 
approach. Expert Review of Vaccines, 19(1), 105–114. ISSN: 
1476-0584. https://doi.org/10.1080/14760584.2019.171105
7
24. Khandelwal, A., Chhabra, M., & Yadav, P. (2020). 
Performance evaluation of algae assisted microbial fuel 
cell under outdoor conditions. Bioresource Technology, 
310, 123418. ISSN: 0960-8524. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
biortech.2020.123418
25. Klionsky, D. J., Abdel-Aziz, A. K., Abdelfatah, S., Abdellatif, 
M., Abdoli, A., Abel, S., Abeliovich, H., Abildgaard, M. H., 
Abudu, Y. P., Acevedo-Arozena, A., Adamopoulos, I. E., Adeli, 
K., Adolph, T. E., Adornetto, A., Aflaki, E., Agam, G., Agarwal, 
A., Aggarwal, B. B., Agnello, M., Mishra, A.,… Tong, C.-K.
(2021). Guidelines for the use and interpretation of assays 
for monitoring autophagy (4th edition)1. Autophagy, 17(1), 
1–382. ISSN: 1554-8627. https://doi.org/10.1080/15548627.
2020.1797280
26. Korupalli, C., Kalluru, P., Nuthalapati, K., Kuthala, N., 
Thangudu, S., & Vankayala, R. (2020). Recent Advances 
of Polyaniline-Based Biomaterials for Phototherapeutic 
Treatments of Tumors and Bacterial Infections. 
Bioengineering, 7(3), 94. ISSN: 2306-5354. https://doi.
org/10.3390/bioengineering7030094
209
Annual Report 2020_21

27. Kuthala, N., Vankayala, R., Chiang, C., & Hwang, K. C. (2020). 
Unprecedented Theranostic LaB 6 Nanocubes‐Mediated 
NIR‐IIb Photodynamic Therapy to Conquer Hypoxia‐
Induced Chemoresistance. Advanced Functional Materials, 
30(36), 2002940. ISSN: 1616-301X, 1616-3028. https://doi.
org/10.1002/adfm.202002940
28. Lindner, P., Paul, S., Eckstein, M., Hampel, C., Muenzner, J. K., 
Erlenbach-Wuensch, K., … Schneider-Stock, R. (2020). EMT 
transcription factor ZEB1 alters the epigenetic landscape 
of colorectal cancer cells. Cell Death & Disease, 11(2), 147. 
ISSN: 2041-4889. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41419-020-2340-
4
29. Mishra, A., Behura, A., Kumar, A., Ghosh, A., Naik, L., 
Mawatwal, S., Mohanty, S. S., Mishra, A., Saha, S., Bhutia, S. 
K., Singh, R., & Dhiman, R. (2021). Soybean lectin induces 
autophagy through P2RX7 dependent activation of 
NF-κB-ROS pathway to kill intracellular mycobacteria. 
Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (BBA) - General Subjects, 
1865(2), 129806. ISSN: 0304-4165. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
bbagen.2020.129806
30. Mishra, R., Amanullah, A., Upadhyay, A., Dhiman, R., 
Dubey, A. R., Singh, S., Prasad, A., & Mishra, A. (2020). 
Ubiquitin ligase LRSAM1 suppresses neurodegenerative 
diseases linked aberrant proteins induced cell death. 
The International Journal of Biochemistry & Cell Biology, 
120, 105697. ISSN: 1357-2725. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
biocel.2020.105697
31. Mishra, R., Joshi, V., Upadhyay, A., Amanullah, A., Dubey, 
A. R., Singh, S., Dubey, V. K., Poluri, K. M., Jana, N. R., & 
Mishra, A. (2021). LRSAM1 E3 ubiquitin ligase promotes 
proteasomal clearance of E6-AP protein. Cellular Signalling, 
77, 109836. ISSN: 0898-6568. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
cellsig.2020.109836
32. Mohapatra, S., Das, G., Gupta, V., Mondal, P., Nitani, M., Ie, 
Y., Chatterjee, S., Aso, Y., & Ghosh, S. (2021). Power of an 
Organic Electron Acceptor in Modulation of Intracellular 
Mitochondrial Reactive Oxygen Species: Inducing JNK- and 
Caspase-Dependent Apoptosis of Cancer Cells. ACS Omega, 
6(11), 7815–7828. ISSN: 2470-1343. https://doi.org/10.1021/
acsomega.1c00308
33. Mukherjee, N., & Ghosh, S. (2020). Myelin Associated 
Inhibitory Proteins as a Therapeutic Target for Healing 
of CNS Injury. ACS Chemical Neuroscience, 11(12), 
1699–1700. ISSN: 1948-7193. https://doi.org/10.1021/
acschemneuro.0c00280
34. Mukherjee, N., Adak, A., & Ghosh, S. (2020). Recent 
trends in the development of peptide and protein-based 
hydrogel therapeutics for the healing of CNS injury. Soft 
Matter, 16(44), 10046–10064. ISSN: 1744-6848. https://doi.
org/10.1039/d0sm00885k
35. Nair, J. B., Mohapatra, S., Joseph, M. M., Maniganda, S., 
Gupta, V., Ghosh, S., & Maiti, K. K. (2020). Tracking the 
Footprints of Paclitaxel Delivery and Mechanistic Action 
via SERS Trajectory in Glioblastoma Cells. ACS Biomaterials 
Science & Engineering, 6(9), 5254–5263. ISSN: 2373-9878. 
https://doi.org/10.1021/acsbiomaterials.0c00717
36. Nayak, S. K., Pradhan, B. K., Banerjee, I., & Pal, K. (2020). 
Analysis of heart rate variability to understand the effect of 
cannabis consumption on Indian male paddy-field workers. 
Biomedical Signal Processing and Control, 62, 102072. ISSN: 
1746-8094. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bspc.2020.102072
37. Nuthalapati, K., Vankayala, R., Chiang, C., & Hwang, 
K. C. (2020). Size and Shape Effects of Near‐Infrared 
Light‐Activatable Cu 2 (OH)PO 4 Nanostructures on 
Phototherapeutic Destruction of Drug‐Resistant Hypoxia 
Tumors. Particle & Particle Systems Characterization, 
37(5), 2000001. ISSN: 0934-0866. https://doi.org/10.1002/
ppsc.202000001
38. Pandya, N., Khan, E., Jain, N., Satham, L., Singh, R., Makde, R. 
D., Mishra, A., & Kumar, A. (2021). Curcumin analogs exhibit 
anti-cancer activity by selectively targeting G-quadruplex 
forming c-myc promoter sequence. Biochimie, 180, 
205–221. ISSN: 0300-9084. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
biochi.2020.11.006
39. Paul, S. & Madhumita. (2020). RFCM3: Computational 
Method for Identification of miRNA-mRNA Regulatory 
Modules in Cervical Cancer. IEEE/ACM Transactions 
on Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, 17(5), 
1729–1740. ISSN: 1557-9964. https://doi.org/10.1109/
TCBB.2019.2910851
40. Pradhan, K., Das, G., Kar, C., Mukherjee, N., Khan, J., Mahata, 
T., … Ghosh, S. (2020). Rhodamine-Based Metal Chelator: A 
Potent Inhibitor of Metal-Catalyzed Amyloid Toxicity. ACS 
Omega, 5(30), 18958–18967. ISSN: 2470-1343. https://doi.
org/10.1021/acsomega.0c02235
41. Proteome Linked Biochemical Targets: Can Repair Defective 
Cellular Physiological Mechanisms? (2021). Cellular 
Physiology and Biochemistry, 55(S2), 49–70. ISSN: 1015-
8987. https://doi.org/10.33594/000000350
42. Qureshi, D., Behera, K. P., Mohanty, D., Mahapatra, S. 
K., Verma, S., Sukyai, P., Banerjee, I., Pal, S.K., Mohanty, 
B., Kim, D., Pal, K. (2021). Synthesis of novel poly (vinyl 
alcohol)/tamarind gum/bentonite-based composite 
films for drug delivery applications. Colloids and 
Surfaces A: Physicochemical and Engineering Aspects, 
613, 126043. ISSN: 0927-7757. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
colsurfa.2020.126043
43. Qureshi, D., Choudhary, B., Mohanty, B., Sarkar, P., Anis, 
A., Cerqueira, M. A., Banerjee, I., Maji, S., & Pal, K. (2020). 
Graphene Oxide Increases Corneal Permeation of
210
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Ciprofloxacin Hydrochloride from Oleogels: A Study with 
Cocoa Butter-Based Oleogels. Gels, 6(4), 43. ISSN: 2310-
2861. https://doi.org/10.3390/gels6040043
44. Roy, R., Pradhan, K., Khan, J., Das, G., Mukherjee, N., Das, 
D., & Ghosh, S. (2020). Human Serum Albumin-Inspired 
Glycopeptide-Based Multifunctional Inhibitor of Amyloid-β 
Toxicity. ACS Omega, 5(30), 18628–18641. ISSN: 2470-1343. 
https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.0c01028
45. Sampson, T. R., Challis, C., Jain, N., Moiseyenko, A., Ladinsky, 
M. S., Shastri, G. G., … Mazmanian, S. K. (2020). A gut 
bacterial amyloid promotes α-synuclein aggregation and 
motor impairment in mice. ELife, 9, e53111. ISSN: 2050-
084X. https://doi.org/10.7554/eLife.53111
46. Sarkar, S., Gulati, K., Mishra, A., & Poluri, K. M. (2020). 
Protein nanocomposites: Special inferences to lysozyme 
based nanomaterials. International Journal of Biological 
Macromolecules, 151, 467–482. ISSN: 0141-8130. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.02.179
47. Saxena, S., Agrawal, I., Singh, P., & Jha, S. (2020). Portable, 
low‐cost hypoxia chamber for simulating hypoxic 
environments: Development, characterization and 
applications. MEDICAL DEVICES & SENSORS, 3(2). ISSN: 
2573-802X. https://doi.org/10.1002/mds3.10064
48. Sharma, N., & Jha, S. (2020). Amorphous nanosilica induced 
toxicity, inflammation and innate immune responses: A 
critical review. Toxicology, 441, 152519. ISSN: 0300-483X. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tox.2020.152519
49. Singh, P., Pesenti, M. E., Maffini, S., Carmignani, S., Hedtfeld, 
M., Petrovic, A., Srinivasamani, A., Bange, T., & Musacchio, 
A. (2021). BUB1 and CENP-U, Primed by CDK1, Are the Main 
PLK1 Kinetochore Receptors in Mitosis. Molecular Cell, 
81(1), 67-87.e9. ISSN: 1097-2765. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
molcel.2020.10.040
50. Srivastava, P., Gomathinayagam, S., Easwaran, N., Sankar, 
G., Padmavathi, E., Shankar, M., Gothandam, K. M., & 
Sivashanmugam, K. (2020). Comparative data analsysis 
of two multi-drug resistant homoserine lactone and 
rhamnolipid producing Pseudomonas aeruginosa from 
diabetic foot infected patient. Data in Brief, 32, 106071. 
ISSN: 2352-3409. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dib.2020.106071
51. Tang, J. C., Vankayala, R., Mac, J. T., & Anvari, B. (2020). 
RBC-Derived Optical Nanoparticles Remain Stable After a 
Freeze–Thaw Cycle. Langmuir, 36(34), 10003–10011. ISSN: 
0743-7463. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.0c00637
52. Thangudu, S., Kulkarni, S. S., Vankayala, R., Chiang, C.-S., 
& Hwang, K. C. (2020). Photosensitized reactive chlorine 
species-mediated therapeutic destruction of drug-resistant 
bacteria using plasmonic core–shell Ag@AgCl nanocubes as 
an external nanomedicine. Nanoscale, 12(24), 12970–12984. 
ISSN: 2040-3364. https://doi.org/10.1039/D0NR01300E
53. Thomas, J., Sharma, D., Mohanta, S., & Jain, N. (2021). 
Resting-State functional networks of different 
topographic representations in the somatosensory 
cortex of macaque monkeys and humans. NeuroImage, 
228, 117694. ISSN: 1053-8119. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
neuroimage.2020.117694
54. Vankayala, R., Bahena, E., Guerrero, Y., Singh, S. P., Ravoori, 
M. K., Kundra, V., & Anvari, B. (2021). Virus-Mimicking 
Nanoparticles for Targeted Near Infrared Fluorescence 
Imaging of Intraperitoneal Ovarian Tumors in Mice. Annals 
of Biomedical Engineering, 49(2), 548–559. ISSN: 0090-6964, 
1573-9686. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10439-020-02589-8
55. Verma, A. K., Khan, E., Mishra, S. K., Mishra, A., Charlet-
Berguerand, N., & Kumar, A. (2020). Curcumin Regulates the 
r(CGG)exp RNA Hairpin Structure and Ameliorate Defects 
in Fragile X-Associated Tremor Ataxia Syndrome. Frontiers 
in Neuroscience, 14, 295. ISSN: 1662-453X. https://doi.
org/10.3389/fnins.2020.00295
56. Vijay, A., Khandelwal, A., Chhabra, M., & Vincent, T. (2020). 
Microbial fuel cell for simultaneous removal of uranium (VI) 
and nitrate. Chemical Engineering Journal, 388, 124157. 
ISSN: 1385-8947. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2020.124157
57. Vikram, V., Penumutchu, S. R., Vankayala, R., Thangudu, S., 
Amperayani, K. R., & Parimi, U. (2020). Design, synthesis, 
molecular docking and cytotoxic activity of novel urea 
derivatives of 2-amino-3-carbomethoxythiophene. Journal 
of Chemical Sciences, 132(1), 126. ISSN: 0974-3626. https://
doi.org/10.1007/s12039-020-01834-w
Conference Paper
1.	
Lee, C. H., Tang, J. C., Vankayala, R., Mac, J. T., Hanley, T., 
& Anvari, B. (2021). Cholesterol-enriched erythrocyte-
derived optical nanoparticles for NIR fluorescence 
imaging of intraperitoneal ovarian tumors in mice. In 
S. Achilefu & R. Raghavachari (Eds.), Reporters, Markers, 
Dyes, Nanoparticles, and Molecular Probes for Biomedical 
Applications XIII (p. 11). United States: SPIE. ISBN: 978-1-
5106-4155-6. https://doi.org/10.1117/12.2582797
Book Chapters
1.	
Paul, S. & Madhumita. (2021). Pattern Recognition 
Algorithms for Multi-Omics Data Analysis. In O. 
Wolkenhauer (Ed.), Systems Medicine (pp. 141–158). Oxford: 
Academic Press. ISBN: 978-0-12-816078-7. https://doi.
org/10.1016/B978-0-12-801238-3.11538-7
Book Edited
1.	
Nayak, A. K., Pal, K., Banerjee, I., Maji, S., & Nanda, U. (Eds.). 
(2021). Advances and challenges in pharmaceutical 
technology: materials, process development and drug 
delivery strategies (1st ed.). Waltham: Elsevier. ISBN: 978-0-
12-820043-8. https://doi.org/10.1016/C2019-0-01023-0
211
Annual Report 2020_21

Department of Chemical Engineering
Journal Papers
1.	
Bedar, A., Kumar, V., Debnath, A. K., Kumar, N. N., Jain, 
R., Tewari, P. K., Bindal, R. C., & Kar, S. (2020). Effect of 
nanodiamond size on γ-radiation resistance property of 
polysulfone-nanodiamond mixed-matrix membranes. 
Diamond and Related Materials, 108, 107963. ISSN: 0925-
9635. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.diamond.2020.107963
2.	
Bedar, A., Lenka, R. K., Goel, N. K., Kumar, S., Jain, R. D., Singh, 
B. G., Tewari, P. K., Bindal, R. C., & Kar, S. (2020). Enhancement 
of γ-radiation stability of polysulfone membrane matrix by 
reinforcement of hybrid nanomaterials of nanodiamond 
and ceria. Materials Advances, 1(5), 1220–1231. ISSN: 2633-
5409. https://doi.org/10.1039/D0MA00169D
3.	
Kumar Gupta, A., Sarkar, P., Wertheim, J. A., Pan, X., Carroll, 
T. J., & Oxburgh, L. (2020). Asynchronous mixing of kidney 
progenitor cells potentiates nephrogenesis in organoids. 
Communications Biology, 3(1), 231. ISSN: 2399-3642. 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s42003-020-0948-7
4.	
Kummamuru, N. B., Sengupta, A., & Dinda, S. (2020). 
Molecular simulation study of CO2 adsorption in carbon slit 
pores at high temperature and pressure conditions. Bulletin 
of Materials Science, 43(1), 296. ISSN: 0250-4707, 0973-7669. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12034-020-02261-w
5.	
Pal, P., Shittu, I., Othman, I., Sengupta, A., Voleti, L. D., & 
Banat, F. (2020). Removal of the total organic acid anions 
from an industrial lean diglycolamine solvent using 
a calcium alginate carbon adsorbent, and molecular 
modeling studies. Journal of Natural Gas Science and 
Engineering, 82, 103516. ISSN: 1875-5100. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.jngse.2020.103516
6.	
Sharma, A., Foppen, J. W., Banerjee, A., Sawssen, S., 
Bachhar, N., Peddis, D., & Bandyopadhyay, S. (2021). 
Magnetic Nanoparticles to Unique DNA Tracers: Effect 
of Functionalization on Physico-chemical Properties. 
Nanoscale Research Letters, 16(1), 24. ISSN: 1556-276X. 
https://doi.org/10.1186/s11671-021-03483-5
Book (Authored)
1.	
Tewari, P. K. (2020). Advanced Water Technologies: 
Concepts and Applications. Boca Raton: CRC Press. ISBN: 
9781315101514. https://doi.org/10.1201/9781315101514
Department of Chemistry
Journal Papers
1.	
Agarwal, P., Kumar, A., Richa, Verma, I., Erande, R. D., Kłak, J., 
Mota, A. J., Arora, H., & Rajput, A. (2021). The reversible inter-
conversion of copper (ii) dimers bearing phenolate-based 
ligands in their monomers: Theoretical and experimental 
viewpoints. New Journal of Chemistry, 45(3), 1203–1215.
2.	
Bahuguna, G., Mondal, I., Verma, M., Kumar, M., 
Bhattacharya, S., Gupta, R., & Kulkarni, G. U. (2020). 
Innovative Approach to Photo-Chemiresistive Sensing 
Technology: Surface-Fluorinated SnO2 for VOC Detection. 
ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces, 12(33), 37320–37329. 
ISSN: 1944-8244. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.0c08847
3.	
Chaubey, B., Dey, A., Banerjee, A., Chandrakumar, N., & Pal, 
S. (2020). Assessment of the Role of 2,2,2-Trifluoroethanol 
Solvent Dynamics in Inducing Conformational Transitions 
in Melittin: An Approach with Solvent 19F Low-Field NMR 
Relaxation and Overhauser Dynamic Nuclear Polarization 
Studies. The Journal of Physical Chemistry B, 124(28), 
5993–6003. ISSN: 1520-6106. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.
jpcb.0c03544
4.	
Chaubey, B., Narwal, P., Khandelwal, A., & Pal, S. (2021). 
Aqueous photo-degradation of Flupyradifurone (FPD) 
in presence of a natural Humic Acid (HA): A quantitative 
solution state NMR analysis. Journal of Photochemistry and 
Photobiology A: Chemistry, 405, 112986. ISSN: 1010-6030. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jphotochem.2020.112986
5.	
Faujdar, J., & Kumar, A. (2021). A comparative study to 
analyze efficiencies of (N+2)-qubit partially entangled states 
in real conditions from the perspective of N controllers. 
Quantum Information Processing, 20(2), 64. ISSN: 1570-
0755. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11128-021-02993-6
6.	
Gahlaut, A., & Paranjothy, M. (2020). Theoretical 
investigation of the dissociation chemistry of formyl 
halides in the gas phase. Physical Chemistry Chemical 
Physics, 22(35), 20069–20077. ISSN: 1463-9076. https://doi.
org/10.1039/D0CP02126A
7.	
Gahlaut, A., & Paranjothy, M. (2021). Chemical dynamics 
simulations of collision induced dissociation of 
deprotonated glycolaldehyde. International Journal of Mass 
Spectrometry, 459, 116468. ISSN: 1387-3806. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.ijms.2020.116468
8.	
Godara, S., Radhakrishnan, A., & Paranjothy, M. (2020). 
Chemical Dynamics Simulations of Curtius Reaction of 
Acetyl- and Fluorocarbonyl Azides. The Journal of Physical 
Chemistry A, 124(32), 6438–6444. ISSN: 1089-5639. https://
doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpca.0c04366
9.	
Gonçalves, R., Sharma, P., Ram, P., Ferdov, S., Silva, M. M., 
Costa, C. M., Singhal, R., Sharma, R. K., & Lanceros-Méndez, 
S. (2021). Improved electrochemical performance of 
LiMn1.5M0.5O4 (M=Ni, Co, Cu) based cathodes for 
lithium-ion batteries. Journal of Alloys and Compounds, 
853, 157208. ISSN: 0925-8388. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
jallcom.2020.157208
212
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

10. Janu, Vikash C., Meena, R. K., Kumar, N., & Sharma, R. K. 
(2020). Surface fluorinated hematite for uranium removal 
from radioactive effluent. Journal of Environmental 
Chemical Engineering, 8(5), 104218. ISSN: 2213-3437. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jece.2020.104218
11. Janu, Vikash Chandra, Janu, Y., Chauhan, V. S., Kumar, N., & 
Sharma, R. K. (2020). On the Study of Surface Fluorinated 
α-Fe₂O₃ for Microwave Absorption. IEEE Transactions 
on Magnetics, 56(7), 1–7. ISSN: 0018-9464. https://doi.
org/10.1109/TMAG.2020.2991169
12. Kaur, H., & Kumar, A. (2020). Nonlocality, entanglement, 
and randomness in different conflicting interest Bayesian 
games. Quantum Information and Computation, 20(11 & 
12), 901–934. ISSN: 1533-7146. https://doi.org/10.26421/
QIC20.11-12-1
13. Krishnapriya, R., Gupta, U., Soni, V. K., & Sharma, R. K. (2020). 
Catalytic conversion of methyl oleate to hydrocarbons: 
impact of cobalt oxide species integration in SiO2–Al2O3. 
Sustainable Energy & Fuels, 4(7), 3308–3317. ISSN: 2398-
4902. https://doi.org/10.1039/C9SE01221D
14. Laishram, D., Shejale, K. P., Krishnapriya, R., & Sharma, 
R. K. (2020). Nitrogen-Enriched Carbon Nanobubbles 
and Nanospheres for Applications in Energy Harvesting, 
Storage, and CO2 Sequestration. ACS Applied Nano 
Materials, 3(4), 3706–3716. ISSN: 2574-0970. https://doi.
org/10.1021/acsanm.0c00402
15. Mondal, D., Malik, S., Banerjee, P., Kundu, N., Debnath, 
A., & Sarkar, N. (2020). Modulation of Membrane Fluidity 
to Control Interfacial Water Structure and Dynamics 
in Saturated and Unsaturated Phospholipid Vesicles. 
Langmuir, 36(41), 12423–12434. ISSN: 0743-7463. https://
doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.0c02736
16. Mondal, I., Bahuguna, G., Ganesha, M. K., Verma, M., Gupta, 
R., Singh, A. K., & Kulkarni, G. U. (2020). Scalable Fabrication 
of Scratch-Proof Transparent Al/F–SnO2 Hybrid Electrodes 
with Unusual Thermal and Environmental Stability. ACS 
Applied Materials & Interfaces, 12(48), 54203–54211. ISSN: 
1944-8244. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.0c17018
17. Naz, E. G., & Paranjothy, M. (2020). Unimolecular 
Dissociation of γ-Ketohydroperoxide via Direct Chemical 
Dynamics Simulations. The Journal of Physical Chemistry 
A, 124(40), 8120–8127. ISSN: 1089-5639. https://doi.
org/10.1021/acs.jpca.0c06211
18. Nicolaou, K. C., Pan, S., Pulukuri, K. K., Ye, Q., Rigol, S., 
Erande, R. D., … Gavrilyuk, J. (2021). Design, Synthesis, and 
Biological Evaluation of Tubulysin Analogues, Linker-Drugs, 
and Antibody–Drug Conjugates, Insights into Structure–
Activity Relationships, and Tubulysin–Tubulin Binding 
Derived from X-ray Crystallographic Analysis. The Journal 
of Organic Chemistry, 86(4), 3377–3421. ISSN: 0022-3263.
19. Parida, S. K., Mandal, T., Das, S., Hota, S. K., De Sarkar, S., & 
Murarka, S. (2021). Single Electron Transfer-Induced Redox 
Processes Involving N-(Acyloxy)phthalimides. ACS Catalysis, 
11(3), 1640–1683. ISSN: 2155-5435. https://doi.org/10.1021/
acscatal.0c04756
20. Rashmi, R., Yadav, K., Lourderaj, U., & Paranjothy, M. (2021). 
Second-order Saddle Dynamics in Isomerization Reaction. 
Regular and Chaotic Dynamics, 26(2), 119–130. ISSN: 1468-
4845. https://doi.org/10.1134/S1560354721020027
21. Soni, V. K., Dhara, S., Krishnapriya, R., Choudhary, G., Sharma, 
P. R., & Sharma, R. K. (2020). Highly selective Co3O4/silica-
alumina catalytic system for deoxygenation of triglyceride-
based feedstock. Fuel, 266, 117065. ISSN: 0016-2361. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fuel.2020.117065
22. Srivastava, Abhinav, Malik, S., Karmakar, S., & Debnath, A. 
(2020). Dynamic coupling of a hydration layer to a fluid 
phospholipid membrane: intermittency and multiple 
time-scale relaxations. Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics, 
22(37), 21158–21168. ISSN: 1463-9076, 1463-9084. https://
doi.org/10.1039/D0CP02803G
23. Srivastava, Arpita, & Debnath, A. (2020). Asymmetry and 
Rippling in Mixed Surfactant Bilayers from All-Atom and 
Coarse-Grained Simulations: Interdigitation and Per Chain 
Entropy. The Journal of Physical Chemistry B, 124(29), 6420–
6436. ISSN: 1520-6106, 1520-5207. https://doi.org/10.1021/
acs.jpcb.0c03761
24. Srivastava, Arpita, Garg, A., Das, D., & Debnath, A. (2020). 
Molecular dynamics simulations of a stacked π-conjugated 
soft material: binding energy and preferential geometry for 
self-assembly. Bulletin of Materials Science, 43(1), 181. ISSN: 
0250-4707, 0973-7669. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12034-020-
2053-4
25. Urgunde, A. B., Bahuguna, G., Dhamija, A., Das, P. P., & 
Gupta, R. (2020). Ni Ink-Catalyzed Conversion of a Waste 
Polystyrene–Sugar Composite to Graphitic Carbon for 
Electric Double-Layer Supercapacitors. ACS Applied 
Electronic Materials, 2(10), 3178–3186. ISSN: 2637-6113, 
2637-6113. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaelm.0c00542
Department of Civil & Infrastructure 
Engineering
Journal Papers
1.	
Bhowmik, H. S., Naresh, S., Bhattu, D., Rastogi, N., Prévôt, A. 
S. H., & Tripathi, S. N. (2021). Temporal and spatial variability 
of carbonaceous species (EC; OC; WSOC and SOA) in PM2.5 
aerosol over five sites of Indo-Gangetic Plain. Atmospheric 
Pollution Research, 12(1), 375–390. ISSN: 1309-1042. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.apr.2020.09.019
213
Annual Report 2020_21

2.	
Gunthe, S. S., Liu, P., Panda, U., Raj, S. S., Sharma, A., 
Darbyshire, E., Reyes-Villegas, E., Allan, J., Chen, Y., Wang, X., 
Song, S., Pöhlker, M. L., Shi, L., Wang, Y., Kommula, S. M., Liu, 
T., Ravikrishna, R., McFiggans, G., Mickley, L. J., … Coe, H. 
(2021). Enhanced aerosol particle growth sustained by high 
continental chlorine emission in India. Nature Geoscience, 
14(2), 77–84. ISSN: 1752-0908. https://doi.org/10.1038/
s41561-020-00677-x
3.	
Kumar, Shiv Shankar, Acharya, P., Dammala, P. K., & Adapa, 
M. K. (2020). Characterization of Ground Response and 
Liquefaction for Kathmandu City Based on 2015 Earthquake 
Using Total Stress and Effective Stress Approach: 
International Journal of Geotechnical Earthquake 
Engineering, 11(2), 1–25. ISSN: 1947-8488, 1947-8496. 
https://doi.org/10.4018/IJGEE.2020070101
4.	
Mohan, R., & Ramadurai, G. (2020). Field data application 
of a non‐lane‐based multi‐class traffic flow model. IET 
Intelligent Transport Systems, 14(7), 657–667. ISSN: 1751-
9578, 1751-9578. https://doi.org/10.1049/iet-its.2019.0583
5.	
Mohan, R., Eldhose, S., & Manoharan, G. (2021). Network-
Level Heterogeneous Traffic Flow Modelling in VISSIM. 
Transportation in Developing Economies, 7(1), 8. ISSN: 
2199-9295. https://doi.org/10.1007/s40890-021-00117-4
6.	
Prakash, P. R., Pulatsu, B., Lourenço, P. B., Azenha, M., & 
Pereira, J. M. (2020). A meso-scale discrete element method 
framework to simulate thermo-mechanical failure of 
concrete subjected to elevated temperatures. Engineering 
Fracture Mechanics, 239, 107269. ISSN: 0013-7944. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.engfracmech.2020.107269
7.	
Puri, N., Jain, A., Nikitas, G., Dammala, P. K., & Bhattacharya, 
S. (2020). Dynamic soil properties and seismic ground 
response analysis for North Indian seismic belt subjected 
to the great Himalayan earthquakes. Natural Hazards, 
103(1), 447–478. ISSN: 0921-030X, 1573-0840. https://doi.
org/10.1007/s11069-020-03995-w
8.	
Rai, P., Furger, M., El Haddad, I., Kumar, V., Wang, L., Singh, 
A., Dixit, K., Bhattu, D., Petit, J.-E., Ganguly, D., Rastogi, N., 
Baltensperger, U., Tripathi, S. N., Slowik, J. G., & Prévôt, 
A. S. H. (2020). Real-time measurement and source 
apportionment of elements in Delhi’s atmosphere. Science 
of The Total Environment, 742, 140332. ISSN: 0048-9697. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.140332
9.	
Rai, P., Slowik, J. G., Furger, M., El Haddad, I., Visser, S., Tong, 
Y., Singh, A., Wehrle, G., Kumar, V., Tobler, A. K., Bhattu, D., 
Wang, L., Ganguly, D., Rastogi, N., Huang, R.-J., Necki, J., 
Cao, J., Tripathi, S. N., Baltensperger, U., & Prévôt, A. S. H. 
(2021). Highly time-resolved measurements of element 
concentrations in PM10 and PM2.5: comparison of Delhi, 
Beijing, London, and Krakow. Atmospheric Chemistry 
and Physics, 21(2), 717–730. ISSN: 1680-7316. https://doi.
org/10.5194/acp-21-717-2021
10. Rathi, A. K., & Chakraborty, A. (2021). Development of 
hybrid dimension adaptive sparse HDMR for stochastic 
finite element analysis of composite plate. Composite 
Structures, 255, 112915. ISSN: 0263-8223. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.compstruct.2020.112915
11. Rathi, A. K., & Chakraborty, A. (2021). Improved Moving 
Least Square-Based Multiple Dimension Decomposition 
(MDD) Technique for Structural Reliability Analysis. 
International Journal of Computational Methods, 18(01), 
2050024. ISSN: 0219-8762, 1793-6969. https://doi.
org/10.1142/S0219876220500243
12. Singh, B., & Kumar, P. (2020). Viscoelastic and Morphological 
Evaluation of Aged Polymer Modified Asphalt Binders. 
International Journal of Civil Engineering, 18(9), 1077–1096. 
ISSN: 1735-0522, 2383-3874. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s40999-020-00517-4
13. Singh, B., Saboo, N., & Kumar, P. (2021). Effect of Polymer 
and Warm mix Modification on Asphalt Mixture Properties. 
IOP Conference Series: Materials Science and Engineering, 
1075(1), 012015. ISSN: 1757-8981, 1757-899X. https://doi.
org/10.1088/1757-899X/1075/1/012015
14. Singh, J., Singh, N., Ojha, N., Sharma, A., Pozzer, A., Kiran 
Kumar, N., Rajeev, K., Gunthe, S. S., & Kotamarthi, V. R. 
(2021). Effects of spatial resolution on WRF v3.8.1 simulated 
meteorology over the central Himalaya. Geoscientific Model 
Development, 14(3), 1427–1443. ISSN: 1991-959X. https://
doi.org/10.5194/gmd-14-1427-2021
15. Tobler, A., Bhattu, D., Canonaco, F., Lalchandani, V., Shukla, 
A., Thamban, N. M., Mishra, S., Srivastava, A. K., Bisht, D. S., 
Tiwari, S., Singh, S., Močnik, G., Baltensperger, U., Tripathi, 
S. N., Slowik, J. G., & Prévôt, A. S. H. (2020). Chemical 
characterization of PM2.5 and source apportionment of 
organic aerosol in New Delhi, India. Science of The Total 
Environment, 745, 140924. ISSN: 0048-9697. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.140924
16. Wang, L., Slowik, J. G., Tripathi, N., Bhattu, D., Rai, P., Kumar, 
V., Vats, P., Satish, R., Baltensperger, U., Ganguly, D., Rastogi, 
N., Sahu, L. K., Tripathi, S. N., & Prévôt, A. S. H. (2020). 
Source characterization of volatile organic compounds 
measured by proton-transfer-reaction time-of-flight mass 
spectrometers in Delhi, India. Atmospheric Chemistry and 
Physics, 20(16), 9753–9770. ISSN: 1680-7316. https://doi.
org/10.5194/acp-20-9753-2020
Book Chapters
1.	
Dammala, P. K., Manne, M. K., & Murali Krishna, A. (2021). 
Seismic Requalification of Pile-Supported Structure: 
Pseudo-Static Approach. In M. Latha Gali & P. Raghuveer 
Rao (Eds.), Geohazards (pp. 601–616). Singapore: 
Springer Singapore. ISBN: 9789811562327. https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-981-15-6233-4_43
214
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Department of Computer Science & 
Engineering
Journal papers
1.	
Agrawal, A., Gupta, S., Jain, P., & Krithika, R. (2020). Quadratic 
vertex kernel for split vertex deletion. Theoretical Computer 
Science, 833, 164–172. ISSN: 0304-3975. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.tcs.2020.06.001
2.	
Amin, R., Kunal, S., Saha, A., Das, D., & Alamri, A. (2020). 
CFSec: Password based secure communication protocol in 
cloud-fog environment. Journal of Parallel and Distributed 
Computing, 140, 52–62. ISSN: 0743-7315. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.jpdc.2020.02.005
3.	
Anandakumar, N. N., Hashmi, M. S., & Sanadhya, S. K. (2020). 
Efficient and Lightweight FPGA-based Hybrid PUFs with 
Improved Performance. Microprocessors and Microsystems, 
77, 103180. ISSN: 0141-9331. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
micpro.2020.103180
4.	
Banerjee, R., & Pal, S. K. (2020). Z*-Numbers, Data 
Structures, and Thinking in Machine-Mind Architecture. 
IEEE Transactions on Emerging Topics in Computational 
Intelligence, 4(5), 686–695. ISSN: 2471-285X. https://doi.
org/10.1109/TETCI.2019.2935539
5.	
Bhandari, R., Nambi, A. U., Padmanabhan, V. N., & Raman, B. 
(2020). Driving Lane Detection on Smartphones using Deep 
Neural Networks. ACM Transactions on Sensor Networks, 
16(1), 1–22. ISSN: 1550-4859, 1550-4867. https://doi.
org/10.1145/3358797
6.	
Chakraborty, D. B., & Pal, S. K. (2021). Rough video 
conceptualization for real-time event precognition with 
motion entropy. Information Sciences, 543, 488–503. ISSN: 
0020-0255. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2020.09.021
7.	
Chauhan, A. K., Kumar, A., & Sanadhya, S. K. (2021). 
Quantum Free-Start Collision Attacks on Double Block 
Length Hashing with Round-Reduced AES-256. IACR 
Transactions on Symmetric Cryptology, 2021(1), 316–336. 
ISSN: 2519-173X. https://doi.org/10.46586/tosc.v2021.
i1.316-336
8.	
Das, D. (2020). A hybrid algorithm for secure cloud 
computing. International Journal of Wireless and Mobile 
Computing, 18(2), 116. ISSN: 1741-1084, 1741-1092. https://
doi.org/10.1504/IJWMC.2020.105693
9.	
Das, D. (2021). An Efficient Algorithm for Fast Handoff 
in Wireless Mobile Networks. Wireless Personal 
Communications, 116(4), 3491–3501. ISSN: 0929-6212, 
1572-834X. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11277-020-07861-7
10. Das, D., & Misra, R. (2021). EASBVN: efficient approximation 
scheme for broadcasting in vehicular networks. Wireless
11. Dhakshinamoorthy, J., Srivastava, S. K., Mishra, D., 
& Pullithadathil, B. (2021). Unveiling the interplay 
between induced native defects and room temperature 
magnetic ordering in titanium deficient disordered-TiO2 
nanoparticles. Nanotechnology, 32(9), 095701. ISSN: 
0957-4484, 1361-6528. https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-6528/
abc57b
12. Ghosh, S., Singh, R., & Vatsa, M. (2020). Subclass 
Heterogeneity Aware Loss for Cross-Spectral Cross-
Resolution Face Recognition. IEEE Transactions on 
Biometrics, Behavior, and Identity Science, 2(3), 
245–256. ISSN: 2637-6407. https://doi.org/10.1109/
TBIOM.2020.2984324
13. Jain, P., Sharma, S., Kumar, N., & Misra, N. (2020). Ni(II) and 
Cu(II) complexes of bidentate thiosemicarbazone ligand: 
Synthesis, structural, theoretical, biological studies and 
molecular modeling. Applied Organometallic Chemistry, 
34(9), e5736. ISSN: 1099-0739. https://doi.org/10.1002/
aoc.5736
14. Kalra, S., Mutreja, P., Goyal, A., & Dixit, A. (2020). A low-cost 
solution for converting existing stethoscope into tele-
stethoscope in resource-constrained setting for COVID-19 
pandemic. Journal of Family Medicine and Primary Care, 
9(11), 5435. ISSN: 2249-4863. https://doi.org/10.4103/jfmpc.
jfmpc_1101_20
15. Kaur, A., Mishra, D., Amogh, K. M., & Sarkar, M. (2021). On-
Array Compressive Acquisition in CMOS Image Sensors 
Using Accumulated Spatial Gradients. IEEE Transactions on 
Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, 31(2), 523–532. 
ISSN: 1051-8215, 1558-2205. https://doi.org/10.1109/
TCSVT.2020.2989359
16. Kundu, Sangita, Malik, S., Ghosh, M., Nandi, S., Pyne, A., 
Debnath, A., & Sarkar, N. (2021). A Comparative Study on 
DMSO-Induced Modulation of the Structural and Dynamical 
Properties of Model Bilayer Membranes. Langmuir, 37(6), 
2065–2078. ISSN: 0743-7463, 1520-5827. https://doi.
org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.0c03037
17. Kundu, Suman, Kajdanowicz, T., Kazienko, P., & Chawla, 
N. (2020). Fuzzy Relative Willingness: Modeling 
Influence of Exogenous Factors in Driving Information 
Propagation Through a Social Network. IEEE Access, 8, 
186653–186662. ISSN: 2169-3536. https://doi.org/10.1109/
ACCESS.2020.3029657
18. Limbasiya, T., & Das, D. (2020). Lightweight Secure 
Message Broadcasting Protocol for Vehicle-to-Vehicle 
Communication. IEEE Systems Journal, 14(1), 520–529. ISSN: 
1932-8184, 1937-9234, 2373-7816. https://doi.org/10.1109/
JSYST.2019.2932807
215
Annual Report 2020_21

19. Majumdar, P., Chhabra, S., Singh, R., & Vatsa, M. (2021). 
Recognizing Injured Faces via SCIFI Loss. IEEE Transactions 
on Biometrics, Behavior, and Identity Science, 3(1), 
112–123. ISSN: 2637-6407. https://doi.org/10.1109/
TBIOM.2020.3047274
20. Majumdar, P., Chhabra, S., Singh, R., & Vatsa, M. (2021). 
Subgroup Invariant Perturbation for Unbiased Pre-Trained 
Model Prediction. Frontiers in Big Data, 3, 590296. ISSN: 
2624-909X. https://doi.org/10.3389/fdata.2020.590296
21. Malhotra, A., Mittal, S., Majumdar, P., Chhabra, S., Thakral, 
K., Vatsa, M., Singh, R., Chaudhury, S., Pudrod, A., & Agrawal, 
A. (2022). Multi-task driven explainable diagnosis of 
COVID-19 using chest X-ray images. Pattern Recognition, 
122, 108243. ISSN: 0031-3203. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
patcog.2021.108243
22. Malhotra, A., Sankaran, A., Vatsa, M., & Singh, R. (2020). On 
Matching Finger-Selfies Using Deep Scattering Networks. 
IEEE Transactions on Biometrics, Behavior, and Identity 
Science, 2(4), 350–362. ISSN: 2637-6407. https://doi.
org/10.1109/TBIOM.2020.2999850
23. Malhotra, A., Sankaran, A., Vatsa, M., Singh, R., Morris, 
K. B., & Noore, A. (2021). Understanding ACE-V Latent 
Fingerprint Examination Process via Eye-Gaze Analysis. IEEE 
Transactions on Biometrics, Behavior, and Identity Science, 
3(1), 44–58. ISSN: 2637-6407. https://doi.org/10.1109/
TBIOM.2020.3027144
24. Mishra, D., Jayendran, A., & P., P. A. (2020). Effect of the 
Latent Structure on Clustering with GANs. IEEE Signal 
Processing Letters, 27, 900–904. ISSN: 1070-9908, 1558-
2361. https://doi.org/10.1109/LSP.2020.2996935
25. Pandey, P., P, P. A., Kyatham, V., Mishra, D., & Dastidar, T. 
R. (2020). Target-Independent Domain Adaptation for 
WBC Classification Using Generative Latent Search. IEEE 
Transactions on Medical Imaging, 39(12), 3979–3991. 
ISSN: 0278-0062, 1558-254X. https://doi.org/10.1109/
TMI.2020.3009029
26. Ravat, R. S., & Verma, Y. (2020). A retrieval-based approach 
for diverse and image-specific adversary selection. 
International Journal of Multimedia Information Retrieval, 
9(2), 125–133. ISSN: 2192-6611, 2192-662X. https://doi.
org/10.1007/s13735-019-00177-8
27. Rout, D. K., Subudhi, B. N., Veerakumar, T., & Chaudhury, S. 
(2020). Walsh–Hadamard-Kernel-Based Features in Particle 
Filter Framework for Underwater Object Tracking. IEEE 
Transactions on Industrial Informatics, 16(9), 5712–5722. 
ISSN: 1551-3203, 1941-0050. https://doi.org/10.1109/
TII.2019.2937902
28. Singh, R., Agarwal, A., Singh, M., Nagpal, S., & Vatsa, M. 
(2020). On the Robustness of Face Recognition Algorithms
Against Attacks and Bias. Proceedings of the AAAI 
Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 34(09), 13583–13589. 
ISSN: 2374-3468, 2159-5399. https://doi.org/10.1609/aaai.
v34i09.7085
29. Subudhi, B. N., Veerakumar, T., Esakkirajan, S., & Chaudhury, 
S. (2020). Automatic lecture video skimming using shot 
categorization and contrast based features. Expert Systems 
with Applications, 149, 113341. ISSN: 0957-4174. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2020.113341
30. Suri, A., Vatsa, M., & Singh, R. (2020). A2-LINK: Recognizing 
Disguised Faces via Active Learning and Adversarial 
Noise Based Inter-Domain Knowledge. IEEE Transactions 
on Biometrics, Behavior, and Identity Science, 2(4), 
326–336. ISSN: 2637-6407. https://doi.org/10.1109/
TBIOM.2020.2998912
31. Vasudev, H., Das, D., & Vasilakos, A. V. (2020). Secure 
message propagation protocols for IoVs communication 
components. Computers & Electrical Engineering, 82, 
106555. ISSN: 0045-7906. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
compeleceng.2020.106555
32. Vasudev, H., Deshpande, V., Das, D., & Das, S. K. (2020). 
A Lightweight Mutual Authentication Protocol for V2V 
Communication in Internet of Vehicles. IEEE Transactions on 
Vehicular Technology, 69(6), 6709–6717. ISSN: 1939-9359. 
https://doi.org/10.1109/TVT.2020.2986585
Conference Papers
1.	
Agarwal, A., Vatsa, M., Singh, R., & Ratha, N. K. (2020). 
Noise is Inside Me! Generating Adversarial Perturbations 
with Noise Derived from Natural Filters. 2020 IEEE/CVF 
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition 
Workshops (CVPRW), 3354–3363. Seattle, WA, USA: 
IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72819-360-1. https://doi.org/10.1109/
CVPRW50498.2020.00395
2.	
Agarwal, Akshay, Singh, R., & Vatsa, M. (2020). The Role of 
‘Sign’ and ‘Direction’ of Gradient on the Performance of 
CNN. 2020 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and 
Pattern Recognition Workshops (CVPRW), 2748–2756. 
Seattle, WA, USA: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72819-360-1. https://doi.
org/10.1109/CVPRW50498.2020.00331
3.	
Anandakumar, N. N., Sanadhya, S. K., & Hashmi, M. S. 
(2020). Design, Implementation and Analysis of Efficient 
Hardware-Based Security Primitives. 2020 IFIP/IEEE 28th 
International Conference on Very Large Scale Integration 
(VLSI-SOC), 198–199. Salt Lake City, UT, USA: IEEE. ISBN: 
978-1-72815-409-1. https://doi.org/10.1109/VLSI-
SOC46417.2020.9344097
4.	
Anshumaan, D., Agarwal, A., Vatsa, M., & Singh, R. (2020). 
WaveTransform: Crafting Adversarial Examples via Input 
Decomposition. In A. Bartoli & A. Fusiello (Eds.), Computer
216
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Vision – ECCV 2020 Workshops (pp. 152–168). Cham: 
Springer International Publishing. ISBN: 978-3-030-66414-5. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-66415-2_10
5.	
Bajaj, K., Limbasiya, T., & Das, D. (2020). An Efficient Message 
Transmission and Verification Scheme for VANETs. In D. 
V. Hung & M. D´Souza (Eds.), Distributed Computing 
and Internet Technology (pp. 127–143). Cham: Springer 
International Publishing. ISBN: 978-3-030-36986-6. https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-36987-3_8
6.	
Chhabra, S., Agarwal, A., Singh, R., & Vatsa, M. (2021). Attack 
Agnostic Adversarial Defense via Visual Imperceptible 
Bound. 2020 25th International Conference on Pattern 
Recognition (ICPR), 5302–5309. Milan, Italy: IEEE. 
ISBN: 978-1-72818-808-9. https://doi.org/10.1109/
ICPR48806.2021.9412663
7.	
Das, D., & Kalra, S. (2020). An Efficient LSI Based Multi-
keyword Ranked Search Algorithm on Encrypted Data 
in Cloud Environment. 2020 International Wireless 
Communications and Mobile Computing (IWCMC), 
1777–1782. Limassol, Cyprus: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72813-129-
0. https://doi.org/10.1109/IWCMC48107.2020.9148123
8.	
Das, D., Amin, R., & Kalra, S. (2020). Algorithm for 
Multi Keyword Search Over Encrypted Data in Cloud 
Environment. 2020 International Wireless Communications 
and Mobile Computing (IWCMC), 733–739. Limassol, 
Cyprus: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72813-129-0. https://doi.
org/10.1109/IWCMC48107.2020.9148472
9.	
Dutta, A., Verma, Y., & Jawahar, C. V. (2020). Recurrent Image 
Annotation with Explicit Inter-label Dependencies. In A. 
Vedaldi, H. Bischof, T. Brox, & J.-M. Frahm (Eds.), Computer 
Vision – ECCV 2020 (pp. 191–207). Cham: Springer 
International Publishing. ISBN: 978-3-030-58525-9. https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-58526-6_12
10. Goel, A., Agarwal, A., Vatsa, M., Singh, R., & Ratha, N. 
K. (2020). DNDNet: Reconfiguring CNN for Adversarial 
Robustness. 2020 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision 
and Pattern Recognition Workshops (CVPRW), 103–110. 
Seattle, WA, USA: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72819-360-1. https://doi.
org/10.1109/CVPRW50498.2020.00019
11. Goyal, S., Khan, N., Chattopadhyay, C., & Bhatnagar, G. 
(2020). LayART: Generating indoor layout using ARCore 
Transformations. 2020 IEEE Sixth International Conference 
on Multimedia Big Data (BigMM), 272–276. New Delhi, 
India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72819-325-0. https://doi.
org/10.1109/BigMM50055.2020.00047
12. Gupta, R., Kumar, A., Chaudhury, S., Lall, B., & Kaushik, V. 
(2020). Data Adaptive Compressed Sensing using deep 
neural network for Image recognition. 2020 National 
Conference on Communications (NCC), 1–5. Kharagpur, 
India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72815-120-5. https://doi.
13. Gupta, S., Jain, P., Roy, S., Saurabh, S., & Zehavi, M. (2020). 
On the (Parameterized) Complexity of Almost Stable 
Marriage. In N. Saxena & S. Simon (Eds.), 40th IARCS Annual 
Conference on Foundations of Software Technology and 
Theoretical Computer Science (FSTTCS 2020) (p. 24:1-24:17). 
Dagstuhl, Germany: Schloss Dagstuhl–Leibniz-Zentrum 
für Informatik. ISBN: 978-3-95977-174-0. https://doi.
org/10.4230/LIPIcs.FSTTCS.2020.24
14. Gupta, Sushmita, Jain, P., Petety, A., & Singh, S. (2021). 
Parameterized Complexity of d-Hitting Set with Quotas. In T. 
Bureš, R. Dondi, J. Gamper, G. Guerrini, T. Jurdziński, C. Pahl, 
… P. W. H. Wong (Eds.), SOFSEM 2021: Theory and Practice 
of Computer Science (pp. 293–307). Cham: Springer 
International Publishing. ISBN: 978-3-030-67730-5. https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-67731-2_21
15. Jain, A., Majumdar, P., Singh, R., & Vatsa, M. (2020). Detecting 
GANs and Retouching based Digital Alterations via DAD-
HCNN. 2020 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision 
and Pattern Recognition Workshops (CVPRW), 2870–2879. 
Seattle, WA, USA: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72819-360-1. https://doi.
org/10.1109/CVPRW50498.2020.00344
16. Jain, P., Sornat, K., & Talmon, N. (2020). Participatory 
Budgeting with Project Interactions. Proceedings of the 
Twenty-Ninth International Joint Conference on Artificial 
Intelligence, 386–392. Yokohama, Japan: International Joint 
Conferences on Artificial Intelligence Organization. ISBN: 
978-0-9992411-6-5. https://doi.org/10.24963/ijcai.2020/54
17. Kalra, S., & Prabhakar, T. V. (2020). Multi-tenant Quality 
Attributes to Manage Tenants in SaaS Applications. 2020 
IEEE International Conference on Software Architecture 
Companion (ICSA-C), 83–88. Salvador, Brazil: IEEE. 
ISBN: 978-1-72817-415-0. https://doi.org/10.1109/
ICSA-C50368.2020.00025
18. Kar, A., Singh, M., Vatsa, M., & Singh, R. (2020). Disguised 
Face Verification Using Inverse Disguise Quality. In A. 
Bartoli & A. Fusiello (Eds.), Computer Vision – ECCV 2020 
Workshops (pp. 524–540). Cham: Springer International 
Publishing. ISBN: 978-3-030-65413-9. https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-030-65414-6_36
19. Keshari, R., Ghosh, S., Chhabra, S., Vatsa, M., & Singh, 
R. (2020). Unravelling Small Sample Size Problems in 
the Deep Learning World. 2020 IEEE Sixth International 
Conference on Multimedia Big Data (BigMM), 134–143. 
New Delhi, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72819-325-0. https://doi.
org/10.1109/BigMM50055.2020.00028
20. Keshari, R., Singh, R., & Vatsa, M. (2020). Generalized 
Zero-Shot Learning via Over-Complete Distribution. 2020 
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern 
Recognition (CVPR), 13297–13305. Seattle, WA, USA:
217
Annual Report 2020_21

21. Kumar, G., Chatterjee, S. K., & Chattopadhyay, C. (2020). 
Drdnet: Diagnosis of Diabetic Retinopathy Using Capsule 
Network (Workshop Paper). 2020 IEEE Sixth International 
Conference on Multimedia Big Data (BigMM), 379–385. 
New Delhi, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72819-325-0. https://doi.
org/10.1109/BigMM50055.2020.00065
22. Kumar, Prabhat, Vatsa, M., & Singh, R. (2020). Detecting 
Face2Face Facial Reenactment in Videos. 2020 IEEE 
Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision 
(WACV), 2578–2586. Snowmass Village, CO, USA: IEEE. 
ISBN: 978-1-72816-553-0. https://doi.org/10.1109/
WACV45572.2020.9093628
23. Kundu, Suman. (2020). Total Influence and Hybrid 
Simulation of Independent Cascade Model using Rough 
Knowledge Granules. 2020 4th International Conference 
on Computational Intelligence and Networks (CINE), 1–6. 
Kolkata, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72815-688-0. https://doi.
org/10.1109/CINE48825.2020.234405
24. Kyatham, V., Mishra, D., & Ap, P. (2021). Variational Inference 
with Latent Space Quantization for Adversarial Resilience. 
2020 25th International Conference on Pattern Recognition 
(ICPR), 9593–9600. Milan, Italy: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72818-808-
9. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICPR48806.2021.9412896
25. Limbasiya, T., & Das, D. (2020). SearchCom: Vehicular 
Cloud-based Secure and Energy-Efficient Communication 
and Searching System for Smart Transportation. 
Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on 
Distributed Computing and Networking, 1–10. Kolkata 
India: ACM. ISBN: 978-1-4503-7751-5. https://doi.
org/10.1145/3369740.3369772
26. Malhotra, A., Chhabra, S., Vatsa, M., & Singh, R. (2020). On 
Privacy Preserving Anonymization of Finger-selfies. 2020 
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern 
Recognition Workshops (CVPRW), 120–128. Seattle, 
WA, USA: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72819-360-1. https://doi.
org/10.1109/CVPRW50498.2020.00021
27. Nagpal, S., Singh, M., Singh, R., & Vatsa, M. (2020). Attribute 
Aware Filter-Drop for Bias-Invariant Classification. 2020 
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern 
Recognition Workshops (CVPRW), 147–153. Seattle, 
WA, USA: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72819-360-1. https://doi.
org/10.1109/CVPRW50498.2020.00024
28. Nagpal, S., Singh, M., Singh, R., & Vatsa, M. (2020). Diversity 
Blocks for De-biasing Classification Models. 2020 IEEE 
International Joint Conference on Biometrics (IJCB), 1–9. 
Houston, TX, USA: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72819-186-7. https://
doi.org/10.1109/IJCB48548.2020.9304931
29. Nahar, A., & Das, D. (2020). Adaptive Reinforcement Routing 
in Software Defined Vehicular Networks. 2020 International 
Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing (IWCMC), 
2118–2123. Limassol, Cyprus: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72813-129-
0. https://doi.org/10.1109/IWCMC48107.2020.9148237
30. Nahar, A., & Das, D. (2020). SeScR: SDN-Enabled Spectral 
Clustering-Based Optimized Routing Using Deep Learning 
in VANET Environment. 2020 IEEE 19th International 
Symposium on Network Computing and Applications 
(NCA), 1–9. Cambridge, MA, USA: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72818-
326-8. https://doi.org/10.1109/NCA51143.2020.9306690
31. Nahar, A., Das, D., & Das, S. K. (2020). OBQR: Orientation-
Based Source QoS Routing in VANETs. Proceedings of the 
23rd International ACM Conference on Modeling, Analysis 
and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems, 199–206. 
Alicante Spain: ACM. ISBN: 978-1-4503-8117-8. https://doi.
org/10.1145/3416010.3423218
32. Nahar, A., Sikarwar, H., & Das, D. (2020). CSBR: A Cosine 
Similarity Based Selective Broadcast Routing Protocol 
for Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks. 2020 IFIP Networking 
Conference (Networking), 404–412. Paris, France: IEEE. 
ISBN: 978-3-903176-28-7. https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/
document/9142786
33. Phani Kumar Malladi, S., Mukhopadhyay, J., Larabi, M.-C., 
& Chaudhury, S. (2020). Eye Movement State Trajectory 
Estimator based on Ancestor Sampling. 2020 IEEE 22nd 
International Workshop on Multimedia Signal Processing 
(MMSP), 1–6. Tampere, Finland: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72819-
320-5. https://doi.org/10.1109/MMSP48831.2020.9287155
34. Ralekar, C., Gandhi, T. K., & Chaudhury, S. (2021). 
Collaborative Human Machine Attention Module for 
Character Recognition. 2020 25th International Conference 
on Pattern Recognition (ICPR), 9874–9880. Milan, Italy: 
IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72818-808-9. https://doi.org/10.1109/
ICPR48806.2021.9413229
35. Rout, D. K., Subudhi, B. N., Veerakumar, T., & Chaudhury, 
S. (2020). Prominent Object Detection in Underwater 
Environment using a Dual-feature Framework. Global 
Oceans 2020: Singapore – U.S. Gulf Coast, 1–5. Biloxi, 
MS, USA: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72815-446-6. https://doi.
org/10.1109/IEEECONF38699.2020.9389401
36. Sanghavi, R. K., & Bhandari, R. (2021). MagnaSense: 
The Flying Mouse. 2021 International Conference on 
COMmunication Systems & NETworkS (COMSNETS), 
158–160. Bangalore, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72819-127-0. 
https://doi.org/10.1109/COMSNETS51098.2021.9352835
37. Sikarwar, H., & Das, D. (2020). An Efficient Lightweight 
Authentication and Batch Verification Scheme for Universal 
Internet of Vehicles (UIoV). 2020 International Wireless 
Communications and Mobile Computing (IWCMC),
218
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

38. Sikarwar, H., & Das, D. (2020202). A Lightweight and Secure 
Authentication Protocol for WSN. 2020 International 
Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing (IWCMC), 
475–480. Limassol, Cyprus: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72813-129-0. 
https://doi.org/10.1109/IWCMC48107.2020.9148483
39. Sikarwar, H., Das, D., & Kalra, S. (2020). Efficient 
Authentication Scheme Using Blockchain in IoT Devices. 
In L. Barolli, F. Amato, F. Moscato, T. Enokido, & M. Takizawa 
(Eds.), Advanced Information Networking and Applications 
(pp. 630–641). Cham: Springer International Publishing. 
ISBN: 978-3-030-44040-4. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
030-44041-1_56
40. Sikarwar, H., Nahar, A., & Das, D. (2020). LABVS: Lightweight 
Authentication and Batch Verification Scheme for Universal 
Internet of Vehicles (UIoV). 2020 IEEE 91st Vehicular 
Technology Conference (VTC2020-Spring), 1–6. Antwerp, 
Belgium: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72815-207-3. https://doi.
org/10.1109/VTC2020-Spring48590.2020.9129180
41. Sinha, R., Vatsa, M., & Singh, R. (2020). FamilyGAN: 
Generating Kin Face Images Using Generative Adversarial 
Networks. In A. Bartoli & A. Fusiello (Eds.), Computer Vision 
– ECCV 2020 Workshops (pp. 297–311). Cham: Springer 
International Publishing. ISBN: 978-3-030-67069-6. https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-67070-2_18
42. Srivastava, S., Kalra, S., & Prabhakar, T. V. (2020). 
Contextual Reactive Pattern on Chatbot building 
Platforms. Proceedings of the European Conference on 
Pattern Languages of Programs 2020, 1–8. Virtual Event 
Germany: ACM. ISBN: 978-1-4503-7769-0. https://doi.
org/10.1145/3424771.3424815
43. Tiwari, S., Bhandari, R., & Raman, B. (2020). RoadCare: 
A Deep-learning Based Approach to Quantifying Road 
Surface Quality. Proceedings of the 3rd ACM SIGCAS 
Conference on Computing and Sustainable Societies, 
231–242. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing 
Machinery. ISBN: 978-1-4503-7129-2. https://doi.
org/10.1145/3378393.3402284
44. Tripathi, A., Dani, R. R., Mishra, A., & Chakraborty, A. (2020). 
Sketch-Guided Object Localization in Natural Images. In A. 
Vedaldi, H. Bischof, T. Brox, & J.-M. Frahm (Eds.), Computer 
Vision – ECCV 2020 (pp. 532–547). Cham: Springer 
International Publishing. ISBN: 978-3-030-58539-6. https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-58539-6_32
45. Verma, S., Nair, H. S., Agarwal, G., Dhar, J., & Shukla, A. (2020). 
Deep Reinforcement Learning for Single-Shot Diagnosis 
and Adaptation in Damaged Robots. Proceedings of the 
7th ACM IKDD CoDS and 25th COMAD, 82–89. Hyderabad
46. Vishwakarma, L., & Das, D. (2020). BSS: Blockchain Enabled 
Security System for Internet of Things Applications. 2020 
IEEE 19th International Symposium on Network Computing 
and Applications (NCA), 1–4. Cambridge, MA, USA: 
IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72818-326-8. https://doi.org/10.1109/
NCA51143.2020.9306694
47. Vyas, J., Das, D., & Das, S. K. (2020). Vehicular Edge 
Computing Based Driver Recommendation System 
Using Federated Learning. 2020 IEEE 17th International 
Conference on Mobile Ad Hoc and Sensor Systems (MASS), 
675–683. Delhi, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72819-866-8. 
https://doi.org/10.1109/MASS50613.2020.00087
48. Yadav, D., Kohli, N., Vatsa, M., Singh, R., & Noore, A. 
(2021). Age Gap Reducer-GAN for Recognizing Age-
Separated Faces. 2020 25th International Conference on 
Pattern Recognition (ICPR), 10090–10097. Milan, Italy: 
IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72818-808-9. https://doi.org/10.1109/
ICPR48806.2021.9412078
Book Chapters
1.	
Chauhan, A. K., & Sanadhya, S. K. (2020). Quantum Resource 
Estimates of Grover’s Key Search on ARIA. In L. Batina, S. 
Picek, & M. Mondal (Eds.), Security, Privacy, and Applied 
Cryptography Engineering (pp. 238–258). Cham: Springer 
International Publishing. ISBN: 978-3-030-66625-5. https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-66626-2_13
2.	
Dunkelman, O., Kumar, A., Lambooij, E., & Sanadhya, S. 
K. (2020). Counting Active S-Boxes is not Enough. In K. 
Bhargavan, E. Oswald, & M. Prabhakaran (Eds.), Progress 
in Cryptology – INDOCRYPT 2020 (pp. 332–344). Cham: 
Springer International Publishing. ISBN: 978-3-030-65276-0. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-65277-7_15
3.	
Madan, S., Gandhi, T., & Chaudhury, S. (2021). Bone Age 
Assessment for Lower Age Groups Using Triplet Network in 
Small Dataset of Hand X-Rays. In Madhusudan Singh, D.-K. 
Kang, J.-H. Lee, U. S. Tiwary, D. Singh, & W.-Y. Chung (Eds.), 
Intelligent Human Computer Interaction (pp. 142–153). 
Cham: Springer International Publishing. ISBN: 978-3-030-
68448-8. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-68449-5_15
Books (Authored)
1.	
Chakraborty, D. B., & Pal, S. K. (2021). Granular Video 
Computing: With Rough Sets, Deep Learning and in IoT. 
Singapore: World Scientific. ISBN: 978-981-122-713-4. 
https://doi.org/10.1142/12013
219
Annual Report 2020_21

Department of Electrical Engineering
Journal Papers
1.	
Ahmed, M. U., Ahmed, S. I., Ahmed, N., Awan, A. T., 
Bhadra, A., Bhattarai, S., Kumar, M., Dhimal, M., Babu, U., 
Abbas, S., Kaur-Ghumaan, S., & Wahajuddin, M. (2021). An 
Overview of Science Diplomacy in South Asia. Science & 
Diplomacy, 2021(January- Special Issue). https://www.
sciencediplomacy.org/article/2021/overview-science-
diplomacy-in-south-asia
2.	
Ai, Y., Mathur, A., Kong, L., & Cheffena, M. (2020). Effective 
Throughput Analysis of α-η-κ-μ Fading Channels. IEEE 
Access, 8, 57363–57371. ISSN: 2169-3536. https://doi.
org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.2982279
3.	
Ai, Y., Mathur, A., Lei, H., Cheffena, M., & Ansari, I. S. (2020). 
Secrecy enhancement of RF backhaul system with parallel 
FSO communication link. Optics Communications, 475, 
126193. ISSN: 0030-4018. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
optcom.2020.126193
4.	
Ai, Y., Mathur, A., Verma, G. D., Kong, L., & Cheffena, M. 
(2020). Comprehensive Physical Layer Security Analysis 
of FSO Communications Over Málaga Channels. IEEE 
Photonics Journal, 12(6), 1–17. ISSN: 1943-0655, 1943-0647. 
https://doi.org/10.1109/JPHOT.2020.3036244
5.	
Baghel, N., & Mukherjee, S. (2020). Slot antenna excited by 
novel substrate integrated coaxial line cavity for millimetre 
wave application. Electronics Letters, 56(7), 317–319. 
ISSN: 0013-5194, 1350-911X. https://doi.org/10.1049/
el.2019.3616
6.	
Bandaru, D., & Shaik, A. G. (2020). Effective faults location 
identification in distribution energy networks using mean 
spectral radius-based ANN. Journal of Green Engineering, 
10(10), 8999–9020. ISSN: 1904-4720. http://www.jgenng.
com/volume10-issue10-2.php
7.	
Barala, S. S., Banerjee, N., Shringi, A., & Kumar, M. (2020). 
Gamma Radiation Detection Response of Pt/PZT/SRO Based 
Capacitor for Dosimetry Application. IEEE Electron Device 
Letters, 41(10), 1564–1567. ISSN: 0741-3106, 1558-0563. 
https://doi.org/10.1109/LED.2020.3019940
8.	
Behera, B., Dhanekar, S., Singh, G., & Chandra, S. (2021). Self-
encapsulated DC MEMS switch using recessed cantilever 
beam and anodic bonding between silicon and glass. 
Microsystem Technologies, 27(3), 863–869. ISSN: 0946-7076, 
1432-1858. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00542-020-04993-5
9.	
Bhandari, M., Fulwani, D., Bandopadhyay, B., & Gupta, R. 
(2020). Reduced‐order event‐triggered controller for a 
singularly perturbed system: An active suspension case. 
IET Control Theory & Applications, 14(17), 2703–2713. 
ISSN: 1751-8644, 1751-8652. https://doi.org/10.1049/iet-
cta.2019.0864
10. Bhati, V. S., Kumar, A., Valappil, M. O., Alwarappan, S., & 
Kumar, M. (2021). Phosphorene Oxide Quantum Dots 
Decorated ZnO Nanostructure-Based Hydrogen Gas 
Sensor. IEEE Sensors Journal, 21(6), 7283–7290. ISSN: 
1530-437X, 1558-1748, 2379-9153. https://doi.org/10.1109/
JSEN.2020.3046675
11. Biswal, H. J., Vundavilli, P. R., & Gupta, A. (2020). 
Perspective—Electrodeposition of Graphene Reinforced 
Metal Matrix Composites for Enhanced Mechanical 
and Physical Properties: A Review. Journal of The 
Electrochemical Society, 167(14), 146501. ISSN: 1945-7111. 
https://doi.org/10.1149/1945-7111/abbf29
12. Biswal, H. J., Yadav, A., Vundavilli, P. R., & Gupta, A. (2021). 
High aspect ZnO nanorod growth over electrodeposited 
tubes for photocatalytic degradation of EtBr dye. RSC 
Advances, 11(3), 1623–1634. ISSN: 2046-2069. https://doi.
org/10.1039/D0RA08124H
13. Chaturvedi, S., & Fulwani, D. (2021). Adaptive Voltage Tuning 
Based Load Sharing in DC Microgrid. IEEE Transactions on 
Industry Applications, 57(1), 977–986. ISSN: 0093-9994, 
1939-9367. https://doi.org/10.1109/TIA.2020.3034068
14. Chaturvedi, S., Fulwani, D., & Guerrero, J. M. (2020). 
Adaptive-SMC Based Output Impedance Shaping in DC 
Microgrids Affected by Inverter Loads. IEEE Transactions 
on Sustainable Energy, 11(4), 2940–2949. ISSN: 1949-3029, 
1949-3037. https://doi.org/10.1109/TSTE.2020.2982414
15. Chawda, G. S., Shaik, A. G., Mahela, O. P., Padmanaban, S., 
& Holm-Nielsen, J. B. (2020). Comprehensive Review of 
Distributed FACTS Control Algorithms for Power Quality 
Enhancement in Utility Grid with Renewable Energy 
Penetration. IEEE Access, 8, 107614–107634. ISSN: 2169-
3536. https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3000931
16. Chawda, G. S., Shaik, A. G., Shaik, M., Padmanaban, S., 
Holm-Nielsen, J. B., Mahela, O. P., & Kaliannan, P. (2020). 
Comprehensive Review on Detection and Classification of 
Power Quality Disturbances in Utility Grid with Renewable 
Energy Penetration. IEEE Access, 8, 146807–146830. ISSN: 
2169-3536. https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3014732
17. Das, Surajit, Kumar, R., Singh, J., & Kumar, M. (2020). 
Fabrication of Microsensor for Detection of Low-
Concentration Formaldehyde Gas in Formalin-Treated Fish. 
IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices, 67(12), 5710–5716. 
ISSN: 0018-9383, 1557-9646. https://doi.org/10.1109/
TED.2020.3031874
18. Dwivedi, P., Dhanekar, S., & Das, S. (2021). Near Room 
Temperature Sensing by In₂O₃ Decorated Silicon Nanowires 
for Sensitive Detection of Ethanol. IEEE Sensors Journal, 
21(6), 7275–7282. ISSN: 1530-437X, 1558-1748, 2379-9153. 
https://doi.org/10.1109/JSEN.2020.3046490
220
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

19. Firdaus, A., Sharma, D., & Mishra, S. (2020). Dynamic power 
flow based simplified transfer function model to study 
instability of low‐frequency modes in inverter‐based 
microgrids. IET Generation, Transmission & Distribution, 
14(23), 5634–5645. ISSN: 1751-8687, 1751-8695. https://doi.
org/10.1049/iet-gtd.2020.0818
20. Gautam, A. R., Fulwani, D., Makineni, R. R., & Rathore, N. 
(2020). ISMC for Boost-Derived DC–DC–AC Converter: 
Mitigation of $2\omega$-Ripple and Uncertainty, and 
Improvement in Dynamic Performance. IEEE Transactions 
on Power Electronics, 35(4), 4353–4364. ISSN: 0885-8993, 
1941-0107. https://doi.org/10.1109/TPEL.2019.2939134
21. Goel, N., & Kumar, M. (2021). Recent advances in ultrathin 
2D hexagonal boron nitride based gas sensors. Journal of 
Materials Chemistry C, 9(5), 1537–1549. ISSN: 2050-7534. 
https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TC05855F
22. Hojamberdiev, M., Goel, N., Kumar, R., Kadirova, Z. C., & 
Kumar, M. (2020). Efficient NO2 sensing performance of a 
low-cost nanostructured sensor derived from molybdenite 
concentrate. Green Chemistry, 22(20), 6981–6991. ISSN: 
1463-9270. https://doi.org/10.1039/D0GC02779K
23. Hojamberdiev, M., Vargas, R., Bhati, V. S., Torres, D., 
Kadirova, Z. C., & Kumar, M. (2021). Unraveling the 
photoelectrochemical behavior of Ni-modified ZnO and 
TiO2 thin films fabricated by RF magnetron sputtering. 
Journal of Electroanalytical Chemistry, 882, 115009. ISSN: 
1572-6657. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jelechem.2021.115009
24. Jain, Anoop, & Ghose, D. (2020). Trajectory-Constrained 
Collective Circular Motion with Different Phase 
Arrangements. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 
65(5), 2237–2244. ISSN: 1558-2523. https://doi.org/10.1109/
TAC.2019.2940233
25. Jaitawat, A., & Singh, A. K. (2021). Online Transmission Policy 
for Energy Harvesting Sensor Node with Energy Loss. IEEE 
Communications Letters, 25(2), 551–554. ISSN: 1558-2558. 
https://doi.org/10.1109/LCOMM.2020.3028767
26. Jaitawat, A., & Singh, A. K. (2021). Uniform thresholding 
based transmission policy for energy harvesting wireless 
sensor nodes in fading channel. Wireless Networks, 27(2), 
1001–1010. ISSN: 1022-0038, 1572-8196. https://doi.
org/10.1007/s11276-020-02497-8
27. Jajoo, G., Kumar, Y., Kumar, A., & Yadav, S. K. (2020). Blind 
Signal Modulation Recognition through Density Spread of 
Constellation Signature. Wireless Personal Communications, 
114(4), 3137–3156. ISSN: 0929-6212, 1572-834X. https://doi.
org/10.1007/s11277-020-07521-w
28. Jingar, N., Khandelwal, A., & Pandya, A. (2021). Design of 
programmable current source for MOSFET based gamma 
dosimetry system. Nuclear Instruments and Methods in
Physics Research Section A: Accelerators, Spectrometers, 
Detectors and Associated Equipment, 990, 164944. ISSN: 
0168-9002. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nima.2020.164944
29. Kaur, A., Mishra, D., & Sarkar, M. (2020). A Power Efficient 
Image Sensor Readout with On-Chip δ -Interpolation Using 
Reconfigurable ADC. IEEE Sensors Journal, 20(13), 6833–
6840. ISSN: 1530-437X, 1558-1748, 2379-9153. https://doi.
org/10.1109/JSEN.2019.2922709
30. Krishna, I. S., & Mukherjee, S. (2020). SICL-based wideband 
crossover with low phase imbalance and group delay. IET 
Microwaves, Antennas & Propagation, 14(12), 1355–1360. 
ISSN: 1751-8733. https://doi.org/10.1049/iet-map.2019.1008
31. Kumar, Amit, Kumar, P., Bajpai, A., Rangra, K., & Bansal, 
D. (2020). Design and Development of a Double-Bridge 
Micromirror with Bending and Twisting Cantilevers for 
Multiobject Spectroscopy. IEEE Transactions on Electron 
Devices, 67(10), 4392–4398. ISSN: 0018-9383, 1557-9646. 
https://doi.org/10.1109/TED.2020.3016624
32. Kumar, D., Singh, B., Kumar, R., Kumar, M., & Kumar, P. 
(2020). Anisotropic electron–photon–phonon coupling 
in layered MoS 2. Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter, 
32(41), 415702. ISSN: 0953-8984, 1361-648X. https://doi.
org/10.1088/1361-648X/ab9a7a
33. Kumar, H., Gupta, S., & Venkatesh, K. S. (2020). A novel non-
customary method of image compression based on image 
spectrum. Sādhanā, 45(1), 288. ISSN: 0973-7677. https://doi.
org/10.1007/s12046-020-01519-7
34. Kumar, H., Gupta, S., & Venkatesh, K. S. (2020). Simultaneous 
Estimation of Defocus and Motion Blurs From Single 
Image Using Equivalent Gaussian Representation. IEEE 
Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, 
30(10), 3571–3583. ISSN: 1051-8215, 1558-2205. https://doi.
org/10.1109/TCSVT.2019.2944915
35. Kumar, R., & Kumar, M. (2020). Single-atom catalysts 
boosted ultrathin film sensors. Rare Metals, 39(10), 1110–
1112. ISSN: 1001-0521, 1867-7185. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s12598-020-01477-3
36. Kumar, R., Liu, X., Zhang, J., & Kumar, M. (2020). Room-
Temperature Gas Sensors Under Photoactivation: From 
Metal Oxides to 2D Materials. Nano-Micro Letters, 12(1), 
164. ISSN: 2150-5551. https://doi.org/10.1007/s40820-020-
00503-4
37. Kumar, R., Zheng, W., Liu, X., Zhang, J., & Kumar, M. (2020). 
MoS 2 ‐Based Nanomaterials for Room‐Temperature Gas 
Sensors. Advanced Materials Technologies, 5(5), 1901062. 
ISSN: 2365-709X. https://doi.org/10.1002/admt.201901062
38. Kumar, Rahul, Goel, N., Raliya, R., Gupta, G., Biswas, P., 
Zhang, J., & Kumar, M. (2021). Plasmonic Au Nanoparticles 
Sensitized MoS₂ for Bifunctional NO₂ and Light Sensing.
221
Annual Report 2020_21

IEEE Sensors Journal, 21(4), 4190–4197. ISSN: 1530-
437X, 1558-1748, 2379-9153. https://doi.org/10.1109/
JSEN.2020.3029036
39. Kumar, Y., Sheoran, M., Jajoo, G., & Yadav, S. K. (2020). 
Automatic Modulation Classification Based on Constellation 
Density Using Deep Learning. IEEE Communications Letters, 
24(6), 1275–1278. ISSN: 1089-7798, 1558-2558, 2373-7891. 
https://doi.org/10.1109/LCOMM.2020.2980840
40. Kushwaha, P., Dasgupta, A., Kao, M.-Y., Agarwal, H., 
Salahuddin, S., & Hu, C. (2020). Design Optimization 
Techniques in Nanosheet Transistor for RF Applications. 
IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices, 67(10), 4515–4520. 
ISSN: 0018-9383, 1557-9646. https://doi.org/10.1109/
TED.2020.3019022
41. Mahela, O. P., Shaik, A. G., Khan, B., Mahla, R., & Alhelou, H. H. 
(2020). Recognition of Complex Power Quality Disturbances 
Using S-Transform Based Ruled Decision Tree. IEEE Access, 8, 
173530–173547. ISSN: 2169-3536. https://doi.org/10.1109/
ACCESS.2020.3025190
42. Mukherjee, S., & Mukherjee, S. (2020). Dual-mode SICL 
bandpass filter with via based perturbation technique for 
Ku-band. Electronics Letters, 56(18), 934–937. ISSN: 0013-
5194, 1350-911X. https://doi.org/10.1049/el.2020.1482
43. Nagar, R., & Raman, S. (2020). 3DSymm: Robust and 
Accurate 3D Reflection Symmetry Detection. Pattern 
Recognition, 107, 107483. ISSN: 0031-3203. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.patcog.2020.107483
44. Nigam, A., & Kumar, M. (2020). Detection of cadmium 
ions Byg-C3N4 functionalization on AlGaN/GaN high 
electron mobility transistor. AIP Conference Proceedings, 
2265(1), 030216. ISSN: 0094-243X. https://doi.
org/10.1063/5.0016583
45. Nigam, A., Goel, N., Bhat, T. N., Tawabur Rahman, Md., 
Dolmanan, S. B., Qiao, Q., Tripathy, S., & Kumar, M. (2020). 
Real time detection of Hg2+ ions using MoS2 functionalized 
AlGaN/GaN high electron mobility transistor for water 
quality monitoring. Sensors and Actuators B: Chemical, 
309, 127832. ISSN: 0925-4005. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
snb.2020.127832
46. Nigam, A., Sharma, N., Lobanov, D., Novikov, A., & Kumar, M. 
(2020). Ultrasensitive Detection of Mercury Ions Under UV 
Illumination of MoS2 Functionalized AlGaN/GaN Transistor. 
IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices, 67(12), 5693–5700. 
ISSN: 1557-9646. https://doi.org/10.1109/TED.2020.3030000
47. Predicting Factors of Vehicular Accidents using Machine 
Learning Algorithm. (2020). International Journal 
of Emerging Trends in Engineering Research, 8(9), 
5171–5176. ISSN: 2347-3983. https://doi.org/10.30534/
ijeter/2020/46892020
48. Raghuwanshi, V., Saxena, P., Rahi, S., Mahato, A. K., Varun, I., 
& Tiwari, S. P. (2020). Solution-Processed Flexible Organic 
Field-Effect Transistors with Biodegradable Gelatin as 
the Dielectric Layer: An Approach Toward Biodegradable 
Systems. ACS Applied Electronic Materials, 2(10), 3373–
3379. ISSN: 2637-6113, 2637-6113. https://doi.org/10.1021/
acsaelm.0c00648
49. Rahman, M. T., Kumar, R., Kumar, M., & Qiao, Q. (2021). 
Two-dimensional transition metal dichalcogenides and 
their composites for lab-based sensing applications: 
Recent progress and future outlook. Sensors and Actuators 
A: Physical, 318, 112517. ISSN: 0924-4247. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.sna.2020.112517
50. Rajbhar, M. K., Rajamani, S., Singh, S. K., Surodin, S., 
Nikolichev, D., Kryukov, R., Korolev, D., Nikolskaya, A., Belov, 
A., Nezhdanov, A., Mikhaylov, A., Tetelbaum, D., & Kumar, 
M. (2020). Gallium nitride nanocrystal formation in Si3N4 
matrix by ion synthesis. Bulletin of Materials Science, 43(1), 
234. ISSN: 0250-4707, 0973-7669. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s12034-020-02181-9
51. Rathore, N., Fulwani, D., & Rathore, A. K. (2020). Event-
triggered Sliding Mode Control for light load efficiency 
improvement in Power Converters. Control Engineering 
Practice, 100, 104429. ISSN: 09670661. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.conengprac.2020.104429
52. Satya Krishna, I., & Mukherjee, S. (2020). Design of 
Wideband Microstrip to SICL Transition for Millimeter-Wave 
Applications. IEEE Access, 8, 4250–4254. ISSN: 2169-3536. 
https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2962905
53. Sharf, M., Jain, A., & Zelazo, D. (2020). A Geometric Method 
for Passivation and Cooperative Control of Equilibrium-
Independent Passivity-Short Systems. IEEE Transactions on 
Automatic Control, 1–1. ISSN: 0018-9286, 1558-2523, 2334-
3303. https://doi.org/10.1109/TAC.2020.3043390
54. Sharma, Prashant, Bhati, V. S., Kumar, M., Sharma, R., 
Mukhiya, R., Awasthi, K., & Kumar, M. (2020). Development 
of ZnO nanostructure film for pH sensing application. 
Applied Physics A, 126(4), 284. ISSN: 0947-8396, 1432-0630. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s00339-020-03466-w
55. Shukla, B., Bassement, J., Vijay, V., Yadav, S., & Hewson, 
D. (2020). Instrumented Analysis of the Sit-to-Stand 
Movement for Geriatric Screening: A Systematic Review. 
Bioengineering, 7(4), 139. ISSN: 2306-5354. https://doi.
org/10.3390/bioengineering7040139
56. Sikri, A., Mathur, A., & Srinivas, K. V. (2020). Performance 
analysis of cooperative power‐line communication system 
with signal space diversity. Transactions on Emerging 
Telecommunications Technologies, 31(4). ISSN: 2161-3915, 
2161-3915. https://doi.org/10.1002/ett.3845
222
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

57. Singh, J., Kumar, A., & Kumar, M. (2020). Highly Tunable Film 
Bulk Acoustic Wave Resonator Based on Pt/ZnO/Fe 65 Co 35 
Thin Films. IEEE Transactions on Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics, 
and Frequency Control, 67(10), 2130–2134. ISSN: 0885-3010, 
1525-8955. https://doi.org/10.1109/TUFFC.2020.2995412
58. Singh, Megha, & Shaik, A. G. (2020). Incipient Fault 
Detection in Stator Windings of an Induction Motor 
Using Stockwell Transform and SVM. IEEE Transactions on 
Instrumentation and Measurement, 69(12), 9496–9504. 
ISSN: 1557-9662. https://doi.org/10.1109/TIM.2020.3002444
59. Varun, I., Mahato, A. K., Raghuwanshi, V., & Tiwari, S. P. 
(2020). Ultralow Current Switching in Flexible Hybrid 
PVP:MoS 2 /HfO x Bilayer Devices. IEEE Transactions on 
Electron Devices, 67(8), 3472–3477. ISSN: 0018-9383, 1557-
9646. https://doi.org/10.1109/TED.2020.3003854
60. Verma, G. D., Mathur, A., Ai, Y., & Cheffena, M. (2021). Secrecy 
performance of FSO communication systems with non‐zero 
boresight pointing errors. IET Communications, 15(1), 155–
162. ISSN: 1751-8628, 1751-8636. https://doi.org/10.1049/
cmu2.12068
Conference Papers
1.	
Agarwal, H., Kushwaha, P., Dasgupta, A., Y-Kao, M., Morshed, 
T., Workman, G., Shanbhag, K., Li, X., Vinothkumar, V., 
Chauhan, Y. S., Salahuddin, S., & Hu, C. (2020). BSIM-IMG: 
Advanced Model for FDSOI Transistors with Back Channel 
Inversion. 2020 4th IEEE Electron Devices Technology & 
Manufacturing Conference (EDTM), 1–4. Penang, Malaysia: 
IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72812-539-8. https://doi.org/10.1109/
EDTM47692.2020.9117979
2.	
Baghel, Naman, & Mukherjee, S. (2021). A Compact Dual 
Frequency SICL based Cavity Backed Slot Antenna with 
High Front to Back Ratio for Millimetre Wave Application. 
2021 15th European Conference on Antennas and 
Propagation (EuCAP), 1–5. Dusseldorf, Germany: IEEE. 
ISBN: 978-88-312-9902-2. https://doi.org/10.23919/
EuCAP51087.2021.9411183
3.	
Bhattacharjya, R., Kanani, A., & Goel, N. (2020). ReARM: A 
Reconfigurable Approximate Rounding-Based Multiplier 
for Image Processing. 2020 24th International Symposium 
on VLSI Design and Test (VDAT), 1–4. Bhubaneswar, India: 
IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72819-369-4. https://doi.org/10.1109/
VDAT50263.2020.9190474
4.	
Chaturvedi, S., & Fulwani, D. (2020). Virtual Impedance 
based Second Order Ripple Control For Non-Inverting 
Buck-boost Converter. 2020 IEEE Industry Applications 
Society Annual Meeting, 1–6. Detroit, MI, USA: IEEE. 
ISBN: 978-1-72817-192-0. https://doi.org/10.1109/
IAS44978.2020.9334723
5.	
Chawda, G. S., & Shaik, A. G. (2020). Power Quality 
Mitigation in Weak AC Grid with Low X/R Ratios using 
Distribution Static Compensator Controlled by LMF 
Algorithm. 2020 IEEE Region 10 Symposium (TENSYMP), 
44–47. Dhaka, Bangladesh: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72817-366-5. 
https://doi.org/10.1109/TENSYMP50017.2020.9230727
6.	
Gandhi, H. K., Shabari Nath, P., & Chouhan, R. (2020). 
Image glossiness from curvelet features using SVM-based 
classification. 2020 10th International Conference on 
Image Processing Theory, Tools and Applications, IPTA 
2020. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 
Inc. ISBN: 978-1-72818-750-1. https://doi.org/10.1109/
IPTA50016.2020.9286630
7.	
Idury, S. K., & Mukherjee, S. (2021). A Wideband DC 
Isolated Substrate Integrated Coaxial Line Transition 
for System Integration. 2020 50th European Microwave 
Conference (EuMC), 731–734. Utrecht, Netherlands: 
IEEE. ISBN: 978-2-87487-059-0. https://doi.org/10.23919/
EuMC48046.2021.9338113
8.	
Kanani, A., Mehta, J., & Goel, N. (2020). ACA-CSU: A Carry 
Selection Based Accuracy Configurable Approximate 
Adder Design. 2020 IEEE Computer Society Annual 
Symposium on VLSI (ISVLSI), 434–439. Limassol, Cyprus: 
IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72815-775-7. https://doi.org/10.1109/
ISVLSI49217.2020.00085
9.	
Khandelwal, A. (2020). Effect of Nonlinearities on Directed 
Optical Logic Gates Using Integrated Semiconductor 
Ring Lasers. 2020 International Conference on Numerical 
Simulation of Optoelectronic Devices (NUSOD), 101–102. 
Turin, Italy: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72816-086-3. https://doi.
org/10.1109/NUSOD49422.2020.9217674
10. Kumar, Y., Jajoo, G., & Yadav, S. K. (2020). 2D-FFT Based 
Modulation Classification Using Deep Convolution Neural 
Network. 2020 IEEE 17th India Council International 
Conference (INDICON), 1–6. New Delhi, India: IEEE. 
ISBN: 978-1-72816-916-3. https://doi.org/10.1109/
INDICON49873.2020.9342123
11. Mangal, N. K., & Tiwari, A. K. (2020). Kinect v2 tracked Body 
Joint Smoothing for Kinematic Analysis in Musculoskeletal 
Disorders. 2020 42nd Annual International Conference of 
the IEEE Engineering in Medicine & Biology Society (EMBC), 
5769–5772. Montreal, QC, Canada: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72811-
990-8. https://doi.org/10.1109/EMBC44109.2020.9175492
12. Mathur, A., Ai, Y., Cheffena, M., & Bhatnagar, M. R. 
(2020). Performance of Hybrid ARQ over Power Line 
Communications Channels. 2020 IEEE 91st Vehicular 
Technology Conference (VTC2020-Spring), 1–6. Antwerp, 
Belgium: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72815-207-3. https://doi.
org/10.1109/VTC2020-Spring48590.2020.9128638
223
Annual Report 2020_21

13. Mukherjee, S., Ghosh, S., & Biswas, A. (2021). Design of 
Compact SIW Cavity Backed Self-triplexing Planar Slot 
Antenna for Triple Band Application. 2021 15th European 
Conference on Antennas and Propagation (EuCAP), 1–5. 
Dusseldorf, Germany: IEEE. ISBN: 978-88-312-9902-2. 
https://doi.org/10.23919/EuCAP51087.2021.9411029
14. Sahu, Abhishek, Kumar, A., & Tiwari, S. P. (2020). 
Performance Investigation of Universal Gates and Ring 
Oscillator using Doping-free Bipolar Junction Transistor. 
2020 IEEE Silicon Nanoelectronics Workshop (SNW), 
125–126. Honolulu, HI, USA: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72819-735-7. 
https://doi.org/10.1109/SNW50361.2020.9131668
15. Sharma, V. K., Tripathi, J. N., & Shrimali, H. (2020). A 
Generalised Approach for Analysing the Impact of Supply 
Noise in MOS Amplifiers. 2020 IEEE 24th Workshop on 
Signal and Power Integrity (SPI), 1–4. Cologne, Germany: 
IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72814-204-3. https://doi.org/10.1109/
SPI48784.2020.9218158
16. Singh, Megha, & Shaik, A. G. (2020). Entropy-based broken 
rotor-bar fault detection and estimation of its severity in 
a three-phase induction motor. 2020 IEEE International 
Conference on Power Electronics, Drives and Energy 
Systems (PEDES), 1–6. Jaipur, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72815-
672-9. https://doi.org/10.1109/PEDES49360.2020.9379475
17. Varun, I., Bharti, D., Mahato, A. K., Raghuwanshi, V., & Tiwari, 
S. P. (2020). Resistive Switching Behaviour of PVP/HfOx 
Hybrid RRAM on Flexible Substrate. 2020 4th IEEE Electron 
Devices Technology & Manufacturing Conference (EDTM), 
1–3. Penang, Malaysia: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72812-539-8. 
https://doi.org/10.1109/EDTM47692.2020.9117950
Book Chapters
1.	
Dhanekar, S. (2020). Smart and Intelligent E‐nose for 
Sensitive and Selective Chemical Sensing Applications. 
In H. Hallil & H. Heidari (Eds.), Smart Sensors for 
Environmental and Medical Applications (1st ed., pp. 
149–171). Wiley. ISBN: 978-1-119-58734-7. https://doi.
org/10.1002/9781119587422.ch8
2.	
Gupta, Priyanshu, Goswamy, T., Kumar, H., & Venkatesh, K. 
S. (2020). A Defocus Based Novel Keyboard Design. In M. 
Kurosu (Ed.), Human-Computer Interaction. Multimodal 
and Natural Interaction (pp. 363–379). Cham: Springer 
International Publishing. ISBN: 978-3-030-49061-4. https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-49062-1_25
3.	
Ranwa, S., & Kumar, M. (2021). Sensing Materials: Ceramics. 
In Reference Module in Biomedical Sciences. Elsevier. ISBN: 
978-0-12-801238-3. https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-
822548-6.00020-0
Department of Humanities & Social 
Sciences
Journal Papers
1.	
Kumari, M., & Sharma, A. (2020). Examining Three 
Connected Concepts: Social Impairment and STEM; Broader 
Autism Phenotype; and Convergence Validity in Autistic 
Trait Screening Tools. International Journal of Engineering 
Trends and Technology, 68(12), 77–86. ISSN: 22315381. 
https://doi.org/10.14445/22315381/IJETT-V68I12P214
2.	
Kumari, M., & Sharma, A. (2020). Neurofeedback Training for 
Social Cognitive Deficits: A Systematic Review. International 
Journal of Online and Biomedical Engineering (IJOE), 
16(10), 151. ISSN: 2626-8493. https://doi.org/10.3991/ijoe.
v16i10.15923
3.	
Naz, F., & Kj, G. (2020). Human Security Framework for 
COVID-19 Management: Lessons from the Kerala Model. 
Chakra: A Nordic Journal of South Asian Studies, 2020(1 
Sepcial Issue), 37–46. ISSN: 1652-0203. https://www.
sasnet.lu.se/sites/sasnet.lu.se/files/2021-01/web_version_
chakra_2020_no_1_ny-3.pdf
4.	
Patra, P. (2021). 1968 and global cinema. Transnational 
Screens, 12(1), 95–97. ISSN: 2578-5273. https://doi.org/10.1
080/25785273.2021.1889096
Book Chapters
1.	
Patra, P. (2021). The Non-Populist Popular and the 
Cinematic Apocrypha. In P. Chakravarty (Ed.), Populism 
and Its Limits: After Articulation. New Delhi: Bloomsbury 
Academic. ISBN: 978-93-89812-57-2. https://doi.
org/10.5040/9789389812572
Department of Mathematics
Journal Papers
1.	
Anand, A., Singh, A. K., Lv, Z., & Bhatnagar, G. (2020). 
Compression-Then-Encryption-Based Secure Watermarking 
Technique for Smart Healthcare System. IEEE MultiMedia, 
27(4), 133–143. ISSN: 1941-0166. https://doi.org/10.1109/
MMUL.2020.2993269
2.	
Bassement, J. N. C., Shukla, B. K., Yadav, S. K., Vijay, V., Mathur, 
A., & Hewson, D. J. (2020). A Pilot Study to Detect Balance 
Impairment in Older Adults Using an Instrumented One-
Leg Stance Test. Journal of Biomechanical Engineering, 
142(9), 091001. ISSN: 0148-0731, 1528-8951. https://doi.
org/10.1115/1.4046636
3.	
Dwivedi, S., Addazi, A., Zhou, Y., & Sharma, P. (2020). Multi-
boundary entanglement in Chern-Simons theory with finite 
gauge groups. Journal of High Energy Physics, 2020(4), 158. 
ISSN: 1029-8479. https://doi.org/10.1007/JHEP04(2020)158
224
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

4.	
Mandal, M., & Nelakanti, G. (2021). Superconvergence 
results for the nonlinear Fredholm–Hemmerstein integral 
equations of second kind. The Journal of Analysis, 29(1), 
67–87. ISSN: 2367-2501. https://doi.org/10.1007/s41478-
020-00247-9
5.	
Mandal, M., Kant, K., & Nelakanti, G. (2020). Convergence 
analysis for derivative dependent Fredholm-Hammerstein 
integral equations with Green’s kernel. Journal of 
Computational and Applied Mathematics, 370, 112599. 
ISSN: 0377-0427. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cam.2019.112599
6.	
Sani, M., Ghosh, S., & Behera, H. (2021). Effect of a floating 
elastic membrane for stabilizing the film flow down 
a porous inclined plane. ZAMM - Journal of Applied 
Mathematics and Mechanics / Zeitschrift Für Angewandte 
Mathematik Und Mechanik, 101(2). ISSN: 0044-2267, 1521-
4001. https://doi.org/10.1002/zamm.201900246
7.	
Sani, M., Selvan, S. A., Ghosh, S., & Behera, H. (2020). Effect 
of imposed shear on the dynamics of a contaminated two-
layer film flow down a slippery incline. Physics of Fluids, 
32(10), 102113. ISSN: 1070-6631, 1089-7666. https://doi.
org/10.1063/5.0024201
8.	
Sengupta, S., Ghosh, S., & Chakraborty, S. (2020). Coriolis 
force-based instability of a shear-thinning microchannel 
flow. Physics of Fluids, 32(4), 042001. ISSN: 1070-6631. 
https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0003300
9.	
Sharma, Vandana. (2021). Global existence and uniform 
estimates of solutions to reaction diffusion systems with 
mass transport type boundary conditions. Communications 
on Pure & Applied Analysis, 20(3), 955. ISSN: 1553-5258. 
https://doi.org/10.3934/cpaa.2021001
10. Shukla, Brajesh K., Jain, H., Vijay, V., Yadav, S. K., Mathur, A., 
& Hewson, D. J. (2020). A Comparison of Four Approaches 
to Evaluate the Sit-to-Stand Movement. IEEE Transactions 
on Neural Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering, 28(6), 
1317–1324. ISSN: 1558-0210. https://doi.org/10.1109/
TNSRE.2020.2987357
11. Singh, S. P., & Bhatnagar, G. (2020). A robust blind 
watermarking framework based on Dn structure. Journal 
of Ambient Intelligence and Humanized Computing, 11(5), 
1869–1887. ISSN: 1868-5137. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s12652-019-01296-0
12. Singh, S. P., & Bhatnagar, G. (2021). A Novel Biometric 
Inspired Robust Security Framework for Medical Images. 
IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 
33(3), 810–823. ISSN: 1558-2191. https://doi.org/10.1109/
TKDE.2019.2935710
Conference Paper
1.	
Chandel, S., & Bhatnagar, G. (2020). A Novel Graph Theoretic
Image Segmentation Technique. In N. Nain, S. K. Vipparthi, & 
B. Raman (Eds.), Computer Vision and Image Processing (pp. 
323–333). Singapore: Springer. ISBN: 978-981-154-015-8. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-15-4015-8_29
2.	
Shukla, B. K., Jain, H., Singh, S., Vijay, V., Yadav, S. K., & 
Hewson, D. J. (2021). Development of an Instrumented 
Chair to Identify the Phases of the Sit-to-Stand Movement. 
In T. Jarm, A. Cvetkoska, S. Mahnič-Kalamiza, & D. Miklavcic 
(Eds.), 8th European Medical and Biological Engineering 
Conference (pp. 382–390). Cham: Springer International 
Publishing. ISBN: 978-3-030-64609-7. https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-030-64610-3_44
3.	
Singh, S. P., & Bhatnagar, G. (2020). A Reference Based 
Secure and Robust Zero Watermarking System. In B. 
B. Chaudhuri, M. Nakagawa, P. Khanna, & S. Kumar 
(Eds.), Proceedings of 3rd International Conference on 
Computer Vision and Image Processing (pp. 325–337). 
Singapore: Springer. ISBN: 978-981-329-088-4. https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-981-32-9088-4_28
Book Chapter
1.	
Goyal, S., Bhatnagar, G., & Chattopadhyay, C. (2021). Noise 
Resilient Thresholding Based on Fuzzy Logic and Non-linear 
Filtering. In Pardeep Kumar & A. K. Singh (Eds.), Machine 
Learning for Intelligent Multimedia Analytics (pp. 127–146). 
Singapore: Springer Singapore. ISBN: 9789811594915. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-15-9492-2_7
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Journal Papers
1.	
Agarwal, A., & Desai, K. A. (2020). Predictive framework for 
cutting force induced cylindricity error estimation in end 
milling of thin-walled components. Precision Engineering, 
66, 209–219. ISSN: 0141-6359. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
precisioneng.2020.07.007
2.	
Agarwal, A., & Desai, K. A. (2021). Modeling of flatness 
errors in end milling of thin-walled components. 
Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, 
Part B: Journal of Engineering Manufacture, 235(3), 
543–554. ISSN: 0954-4054, 2041-2975. https://doi.
org/10.1177/0954405420949214
3.	
Dak, G., & Pandey, C. (2020). A critical review on dissimilar 
welds joint between martensitic and austenitic steel 
for power plant application. Journal of Manufacturing 
Processes, 58, 377–406. ISSN: 1526-6125. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.jmapro.2020.08.019
4.	
Hardik, B. K., & Prabhu, S. V. (2020). Experimental correlation 
for critical heat flux in helical coils. Nuclear Engineering 
and Design, 368, 110759. ISSN: 0029-5493. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.nucengdes.2020.110759
225
Annual Report 2020_21

5.	
Jakhar, P., Dave, L., Ahmad, M., Rathore, H., Gehlot, N., 
Gupta, S., Satankar, R., Nighojkar, A., & Plappally, A. (2020). 
Controlled porosity based sub-surface porous vessel 
(SSPV) structures for irrigating organic farms of fruits 
and vegetables. Acta Horticulturae, (1298), 435–442. 
ISSN: 0567-7572, 2406-6168. https://doi.org/10.17660/
ActaHortic.2020.1298.60
6.	
Kale, A. B., Singh, J., Kim, B.-K., Kim, D.-I., & Choi, S.-H. 
(2020). Effect of initial microstructure on the deformation 
heterogeneities of 316L stainless steels fabricated by 
selective laser melting processing. Journal of Materials 
Research and Technology, 9(4), 8867–8883. ISSN: 2238-
7854. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmrt.2020.06.015
7.	
Khan, W. N., & Chhibber, R. (2020). Effect of Intermetallic and 
Secondary Phases on Dry and Wet Sliding Wear Behavior of 
Super Duplex Stainless Steel. Tribology Transactions, 63(3), 
403–414. ISSN: 1040-2004, 1547-397X. https://doi.org/10.10
80/10402004.2019.1694731
8.	
Khan, W. N., & Chhibber, R. (2020). Experimental 
investigations on red ochre for application in welding 
consumable development. Proceedings of the Institution of 
Mechanical Engineers, Part L: Journal of Materials: Design 
and Applications, 234(8), 1063–1070. ISSN: 1464-4207. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/1464420720925855
9.	
Khan, W. N., & Chhibber, R. (2020). Physicochemical and 
thermo physical characterization of CaO–CaF2–SiO2 and 
CaO–TiO2–SiO2 based electrode coating for offshore welds. 
Ceramics International, 46(7), 8601–8614. ISSN: 0272-8842. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ceramint.2019.12.092
10. Khan, W. N., & Chhibber, R. (2020). Weld Metal Chemistry 
of Mineral Waste Added SiO2–CaO–CaF2–TiO2 Electrode 
Coatings for Offshore Welds. Journal of Pressure Vessel 
Technology, 142(3), 031505. ISSN: 0094-9930. https://doi.
org/10.1115/1.4046218
11. Khan, W. N., & Chhibber, R. (2021). Effect of filler metal on 
solidification, microstructure and mechanical properties of 
dissimilar super duplex/pipeline steel GTA weld. Materials 
Science and Engineering: A, 803, 140476. ISSN: 0921-5093. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.msea.2020.140476
12. Khan, W. N., Kumar, J., & Chhibber, R. (2020). High-
temperature wettability study of mineral waste added 
CaO–CaF2–SiO2 and CaO–TiO2–SiO2-based electrode 
coating for offshore welds. Proceedings of the Institution of 
Mechanical Engineers, Part L: Journal of Materials: Design 
and Applications, 234(4), 622–636. ISSN: 1464-4207, 2041-
3076. https://doi.org/10.1177/1464420720906438
13. Khan, W. N., Mahajan, S., & Chhibber, R. (2021). 
Investigations on reformed austenite in the microstructure
of dissimilar super duplex/pipeline steel weld. Materials 
Letters, 285, 129109. ISSN: 0167-577X. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.matlet.2020.129109
14. Khurana, A., Kumar, A., Raut, S. K., Sharma, A. K., & Joglekar, 
M. M. (2021). Effect of viscoelasticity on the nonlinear 
dynamic behavior of dielectric elastomer minimum 
energy structures. International Journal of Solids and 
Structures, 208–209, 141–153. ISSN: 0020-7683. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.ijsolstr.2020.10.022
15. Kumar, P., & Pratiher, B. (2020). Position analysis and 
nonlinear phenomena of flexible manipulator with generic 
payload mounted on a moving base. Proceedings of the 
Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part K: Journal of Multi-
Body Dynamics, 234(2), 408–423. ISSN: 1464-4193, 2041-
3068. https://doi.org/10.1177/1464419320901389
16. Kumar, Pravesh, & Pratiher, B. (2020). Influences of generic 
payload and constraint force on modal analysis and dynamic 
responses of flexible manipulator. Mechanics Based Design 
of Structures and Machines, 1–19. ISSN: 1539-7734, 1539-
7742. https://doi.org/10.1080/15397734.2020.1766980
17. Kumar, S. S., Chhibber, R., & Sapthagiri, S. (2020). 
Thermal degradation study for manufacturability of 
polyetheretherketone/hydroxyapatite bone implant 
composite. AIP Conference Proceedings, 2269(1), 030027. 
ISSN: 0094-243X. https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0019705
18. Kumar, S., Pandey, C., & Goyal, A. (2020). A microstructural 
and mechanical behavior study of heterogeneous P91 
welded joint. International Journal of Pressure Vessels 
and Piping, 185, 104128. ISSN: 0308-0161. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.ijpvp.2020.104128
19. Kumar, S., Pandey, C., & Goyal, A. (2020). Role of dissimilar 
IN617 nickel alloy consumable on microstructural and 
mechanical behavior of P91 welds joint. Archives of Civil 
and Mechanical Engineering, 20(3), 99. ISSN: 1644-9665. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s43452-020-00104-3
20. Mahajan, S., & Chhibber, R. (2020). Elevated temperature 
molten salt corrosion study of SS304L austenitic boiler steel. 
Sādhanā, 45(1), 199. ISSN: 0256-2499, 0973-7677. https://
doi.org/10.1007/s12046-020-01416-z
21. Mahajan, S., & Chhibber, R. (2020). Experimental 
investigations on P22/P91 dissimilar shielded metal 
arc welds for power plant applications. Proceedings 
of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part L: 
Journal of Materials: Design and Applications, 234(10), 
1313–1324. ISSN: 1464-4207, 2041-3076. https://doi.
org/10.1177/1464420720939115
22. Mahajan, S., & Chhibber, R. (2020). Investigation on slags of 
CaO-CaF2-SiO2- Al2O3 based electrode coatings developed
226
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

for power plant welds. Ceramics International, 46(7), 
8774–8786. ISSN: 0272-8842. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
ceramint.2019.12.117
23. Mahajan, S., & Chhibber, R. (2020). Investigations on 
dissimilar welding of P91/SS304L using Nickel-based 
electrodes. Materials and Manufacturing Processes, 35(9), 
1010–1023. ISSN: 1042-6914, 1532-2475. https://doi.org/10.
1080/10426914.2020.1755041
24. Mahajan, S., Kumar, J., & Chhibber, R. (2020). High-
Temperature Wettability Investigations on Laboratory-
Developed CaO-CaF2-SiO2 -Al2O3 Flux System-Based 
Welding Electrode Coatings for Power Plant Applications. 
Silicon, 12(11), 2741–2753. ISSN: 1876-990X, 1876-9918. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12633-019-00374-4
25. Monde, A. D., Chawla, O., Kumar, V., Karagadde, S., & 
Chakraborty, P. R. (2020). Shrinkage induced flow during 
directional solidification of pure substance in a bottom 
cooled cavity: A study on flow reversal phenomena. Physics 
of Fluids, 32(4), 047104. ISSN: 1070-6631, 1089-7666. 
https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0002953
26. Monde, A. D., Shrivastava, A., Jakhar, A., & Chakraborty, P. 
R. (2021). Binary alloy solidification and freckle formation: 
Effect of shrinkage induced flow on solutal instability and 
macro-segregation. Physics of Fluids, 33(3), 037108. ISSN: 
1070-6631, 1089-7666. https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0039003
27. Paliwal, P. V., Kamble, P. H., Desai, K. A., Sharma, R., & 
Singhal, A. (2020). Preliminary design and testing of neck 
chamber device for baroreflex sensitivity assessment. BMJ 
Innovations, 6(4), 132–142. ISSN: 2055-8074, 2055-642X. 
https://doi.org/10.1136/bmjinnov-2019-000390
28. Pandey, C. (2020). Mechanical and Metallurgical 
Characterization of Dissimilar P92/SS304 L Welded Joints 
Under Varying Heat Treatment Regimes. Metallurgical and 
Materials Transactions A, 51(5), 2126–2142. ISSN: 1073-5623, 
1543-1940. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11661-020-05660-0
29. Pandey, C., Thakare, J. G., Taraphdar, P. K., Kumar, P., 
Gupta, A., & Sirohi, S. (2021). Characterization of the soft 
zone in dissimilar welds joint of 2.25Cr-1Mo and lean 
duplex LDX2101 steel. Fusion Engineering and Design, 
163, 112147. ISSN: 0920-3796. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
fusengdes.2020.112147
30. Phadatare, H. P., & Pratiher, B. (2020). Dynamic stability 
and bifurcation phenomena of an axially loaded 
flexible shaft-disk system supported by flexible bearing. 
Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, 
Part C: Journal of Mechanical Engineering Science, 234(15), 
2951–2967. ISSN: 0954-4062, 2041-2983. https://doi.
org/10.1177/0954406220911957
31. Prasad, R., Venugopal, R., Kumaraswamidhas, L. A., Pandey, 
C., & Pan, S. K. (2020). Analysis of the Influence of Blaine 
Numbers and Firing Temperature on Iron Ore Pellets 
Properties Using RSM-I-Optimal Design: An Approach 
Toward Suitability. Mining, Metallurgy & Exploration, 
37(5), 1703–1716. ISSN: 2524-3462, 2524-3470. https://doi.
org/10.1007/s42461-020-00282-x
32. Sarma, S., Singh, S., & Garg, A. (2021). Laminated Ag and 
Ag/CNT nanocomposite films as sensing element for 
efficient thin film temperature sensors. Measurement, 
172, 108876. ISSN: 0263-2241. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
measurement.2020.108876
33. Sharma, L., & Chhibber, R. (2020). Experimental 
Investigation of Thermo-Physical Properties of SAW Slag. 
Silicon, 12(8), 1787–1798. ISSN: 1876-990X, 1876-9918. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12633-019-00286-3
34. Sharma, L., & Chhibber, R. (2020). Investigations of Surface 
Properties of SAW Fluxes Using CaO-SiO2-TiO2 & Al2O3-
CaO-SiO2 Ternary Phase Systems. Silicon. ISSN: 1876-990X, 
1876-9918. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12633-020-00787-6
35. Sharma, L., & Chhibber, R. (2020). Investigations of 
thermophysical properties of submerged arc welding 
slag using a rutile-acidic flux system. CIRP Journal of 
Manufacturing Science and Technology, 31, 322–333. ISSN: 
1755-5817. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cirpj.2020.06.006
36. Sharma, L., & Chhibber, R. (2020). Study of weld bead 
chemical, microhardness & microstructural analysis 
using submerged arc welding fluxes for linepipe steel 
applications. Ceramics International, 46(15), 24615–
24623. ISSN: 0272-8842. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
ceramint.2020.06.250
37. Sharma, L., Kumar, J., & Chhibber, R. (2020). Experimental 
investigation on high temperature wettability and 
structural behaviour of SAW fluxes using MgO–TiO2–
SiO2 and Al2O3–MgO–SiO2 flux system. Ceramics 
International, 46(5), 5649–5657. ISSN: 0272-8842. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.ceramint.2019.11.011
38. Sharma, L., Kumar, J., & Chhibber, R. (2020). Experimental 
investigation on surface behaviour of submerged 
arc welding fluxes using basic flux system. Ceramics 
International, 46(6), 8111–8121. ISSN: 0272-8842. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.ceramint.2019.12.038
39. Sirohi, S., Pandey, C., & Goyal, A. (2020). Characterization of 
structure-property relationship of martensitic P91 and high 
alloy ferritic austenitic F69 steel. International Journal of 
Pressure Vessels and Piping, 188, 104179. ISSN: 0308-0161. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpvp.2020.104179
40. Sirohi, Sachin, Pandey, C., & Goyal, A. (2020). Role of heat-
treatment and filler on structure-property relationship
227
Annual Report 2020_21

of dissimilar welded joint of P22 and F69 steel. Fusion 
Engineering and Design, 159, 111935. ISSN: 0920-3796. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fusengdes.2020.111935
41. Soni, D., & Desai, K. A. (2020). Gaussian approach–based 
cutting force coefficient identification for flat-end 
milling operation. The International Journal of Advanced 
Manufacturing Technology, 110(11–12), 3023–3034. ISSN: 
0268-3768, 1433-3015. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00170-020-
06045-8
42. Tank, P. N., Hardik, B. K., Sridharan, A., & Prabhu, S. V. (2021). 
Pressure drop, local heat transfer coefficient, and critical 
heat flux of DNB type for flow boiling in a horizontal 
straight tube with R-123. Heat and Mass Transfer, 57(2), 
223–250. ISSN: 0947-7411, 1432-1181. https://doi.
org/10.1007/s00231-020-02935-5
43. Taraphdar, P. K., Pandey, C., & Mahapatra, M. M. (2020). Finite 
element investigation of IGSCC-prone zone in AISI 304L 
multipass groove welds. Archives of Civil and Mechanical 
Engineering, 20(2), 54. ISSN: 1644-9665. https://doi.
org/10.1007/s43452-020-00056-8
44. Taraphdar, P. K., Thakare, J. G., Pandey, C., & Mahapatra, M. 
M. (2020). Novel residual stress measurement technique 
to evaluate through thickness residual stress fields. 
Materials Letters, 277, 128347. ISSN: 0167-577X. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.matlet.2020.128347
45. Vaishnav, S., Agarwal, A., & Desai, K. A. (2020). Machine 
learning-based instantaneous cutting force model for end 
milling operation. Journal of Intelligent Manufacturing, 
31(6), 1353–1366. ISSN: 0956-5515, 1572-8145. https://doi.
org/10.1007/s10845-019-01514-8
Department of Metallurgical & 
Materials Engineering
Journal Papers
1.	
Arivazhagan, A., Venugopal, P. R., Mohammad, A., & 
Ravi, K. R. (2021). Influence of Magnesium Infiltration on 
Compressive Behavior of Additively Manufactured Porous 
Ti6Al4V Structure. Journal of Testing and Evaluation, 49(6), 
20200558. ISSN: 0090-3973. https://doi.org/10.1520/
JTE20200558
2.	
Banthia, S., Amid, M., Sengupta, S., Das, S., & Das, K. (2020). 
Reciprocating Sliding Wear of Cu, Cu-SiC Functionally 
Graded Coating on Electrical Contact. Journal of Materials 
Engineering and Performance, 29(6), 3930–3940. ISSN: 
1059-9495, 1544-1024. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11665-020-
04878-8
3.	
Bhattacharyya, A., O’Bryan, C., Ni, Y., Morley, C. D., Taylor, 
C. R., & Angelini, T. E. (2020). Hydrogel compression and
polymer osmotic pressure. Biotribology, 22, 100125. ISSN: 
2352-5738. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biotri.2020.100125
4.	
Dagar, P., Bera, J., Gandi, A. N., Daukiya, L., Vyas, G., & Sahu, 
S. (2020). Voltage Induced Molecular Motors Constitute 
the Smallest Self‐Assembled Molecular Electronic Counter. 
Advanced Materials Interfaces, 7(18), 2000383. ISSN: 2196-
7350, 2196-7350. https://doi.org/10.1002/admi.202000383
5.	
Frank, M., Nene, S. S., Chen, Y., Gwalani, B., Kautz, E. J., 
Devaraj, A., An, K., & Mishra, R. S. (2020). Correlating 
work hardening with co-activation of stacking fault 
strengthening and transformation in a high entropy alloy 
using in-situ neutron diffraction. Scientific Reports, 10(1), 
22263. ISSN: 2045-2322. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-
020-79492-8
6.	
Gandi, A. N., & Zhu, J. (2020). Reconstructive Phase 
Transformations in Body‐Centered Cubic Titanium. Physica 
Status Solidi (b), 257(12), 2000193. ISSN: 0370-1972, 1521-
3951. https://doi.org/10.1002/pssb.202000193
7.	
Gupta, R. K., Nampoothiri, J., Dhamodharan, S., Ravi, K. 
R., Udhayabanu, V., & Peshwe, D. R. (2020). Ultrasonic 
assisted synthesis of Al–Cu/2 vol%Grp composite and 
its characterization. Journal of Alloys and Compounds, 
845, 156087. ISSN: 0925-8388. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
jallcom.2020.156087
8.	
Joghee, S. H., Uthandi, K. M., Singh, N., Katti, S., Kumar, P., 
Ravi, K. R., & Pullithadathil, B. (2020). Superhydrophobic 
Coatings Based on Pseudoboehmite Nanoflakelets for 
Sustainable Photovoltaic Energy Production. ACS Applied 
Nano Materials, 3(10), 9899–9911. https://doi.org/10.1021/
acsanm.0c01956
9.	
Joghee, S. H., Uthandi, K. M., Singh, N., Katti, S., Kumar, 
P., Ravi, K. R., & Pullithadathil, B. (2020). Evolution of 
Temperature-Driven Interfacial Wettability and Surface 
Energy Properties on Hierarchically Structured Porous 
Superhydrophobic Pseudoboehmite Thin Films. Langmuir, 
36(23), 6352–6364. ISSN: 0743-7463, 1520-5827. https://doi.
org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.0c00368
10. Mishra, R. S., & Nene, S. S. (2021). Some Unique Aspects of 
Mechanical Behavior of Metastable Transformative High 
Entropy Alloys. Metallurgical and Materials Transactions A, 
52(3), 889–896. ISSN: 1073-5623, 1543-1940. https://doi.
org/10.1007/s11661-021-06138-3
11. Pise, M. T., Srinivas, S., Chatterjee, A., Kashyap, B. P., Singh, R. 
N., & Tatiparti, S. S. V. (2020). Influence of surface condition 
on the current densities rendering nucleation loop during 
cyclic voltammetry for electrodeposition of Pd thin films. 
Surfaces and Interfaces, 20, 100525. ISSN: 2468-0230. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.surfin.2020.100525
12. Ramakrishnan, V., Nair, K. G., Dhakshinamoorthy, J., Ravi, 
K. R., & Pullithadathil, B. (2020). Porous, n–p type ultra-
228
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

long, ZnO@Bi2O3 heterojunction nanorods - based 
NO2 gas sensor: new insights towards charge transport 
characteristics. Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics, 
22(14), 7524–7536. ISSN: 1463-9076, 1463-9084. https://doi.
org/10.1039/D0CP00567C
13. Satish Idury, K. S. N., Rastogi, P., Narayan, R. L., Singh, N., 
Ravi, K. R., Murty, B. S., & Bhatt, J. (2020). Room temperature 
dynamic indentation response of partially crystallized 
Zr–Cu metallic glass. Journal of Alloys and Compounds, 
834, 155161. ISSN: 0925-8388. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
jallcom.2020.155161
14. Singh, J., Chakrabarty, S., & Pant, P. (2021). Strengthening 
effect of grain and twin boundaries in zirconium bi-crystal 
micropillars. Philosophical Magazine Letters, 101(3), 93–106. 
ISSN: 0950-0839, 1362-3036. https://doi.org/10.1080/09500
839.2020.1859150
Department of Physics
Journal Papers
1.	
Aggarwal, A., Naskar, S., Sahoo, A. K., Mogurampelly, S., 
Garai, A., & Maiti, P. K. (2020). What do we know about DNA 
mechanics so far? Current Opinion in Structural Biology, 
64, 42–50. ISSN: 0959-440X. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
sbi.2020.05.010
2.	
Alok, A. K., Dighe, A., Gangal, S., & Kumar, D. (2020). 
Predictions for Bs→K-*ℓℓ in non-universal Z′ models. The 
European Physical Journal C, 80(7), 682. ISSN: 1434-6044, 
1434-6052. https://doi.org/10.1140/epjc/s10052-020-8232-z
3.	
Alok, A. K., Kumar, D., Kumbhakar, S., & Sankar, S. U. (2020). 
Solutions to R- R D ⁎ in light of Belle 2019 data. Nuclear 
Physics B, 953, 114957. ISSN: 0550-3213. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.nuclphysb.2020.114957
4.	
axena, K., Singh, P., Sahoo, P., Sahu, S., Ghosh, S., Ray, K., 
Fujita, D., & Bandyopadhyay, A. (2020). Fractal, Scale Free 
Electromagnetic Resonance of a Single Brain Extracted 
Microtubule Nanowire, a Single Tubulin Protein and a Single 
Neuron. Fractal and Fractional, 4(2), 11. ISSN: 2504-3110. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/fractalfract4020011
5.	
Babbar, P., Tiwari, B., Ivanishchev, A. V., & Dixit, A. (2021). 
Capacity Fading in Li2FeSiO4 Cathode Material: Intrinsic or 
Extrinsic. Journal of Electronic Materials, 50(3), 1059–1066. 
ISSN: 0361-5235, 1543-186X. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s11664-020-08620-x
6.	
Banerjee, S., & Jayannavar, A. M. (2020). Trends in Quantum 
Optics: A Personal Perspective. Resonance, 25(11), 1559–
1577. ISSN: 0971-8044, 0973-712X. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s12045-020-1075-y
7.	
Banerjee, S., Naikoo, J., & Srikanth, R. (2020). Distinguishing 
environment-induced non-Markovianity from subsystem
dynamics. International Journal of Quantum Information, 
18(07), 2050042. ISSN: 0219-7499, 1793-6918. https://doi.
org/10.1142/S0219749920500422
8.	
Betal, A., Bera, J., & Sahu, S. (2021). Low-temperature 
thermoelectric behavior and impressive optoelectronic 
properties of two-dimensional XI2 (X = Sn, Si): A first 
principle study. Computational Materials Science, 186, 
109977. ISSN: 0927-0256. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
commatsci.2020.109977
9.	
Chandrasekhar, S., Deepa, H. R., Melavanki, R. M., 
Mogurampelly, S., Basanagouda, M. M., Yallappa, S., 
& Thipperudrappa, J. (2020). Quantum chemical and 
solvatochromic studies of biological active 1,3,4-thiadiazol 
coumarin derivatives. Chemical Data Collections, 29, 
100516. ISSN: 2405-8300. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
cdc.2020.100516
10. Chatterjee, S., Kothadia, H., & Venkatakrishnan, N. (2020). 
A novel uniform illumination on receivers in central tower 
systems using ray tracing approach. AIP Conference 
Proceedings, 2303(1), 030009. ISSN: 0094-243X. https://doi.
org/10.1063/5.0028578
11. Chaurasiya, R., & Dixit, A. (2020). Ultrahigh sensitivity 
with excellent recovery time for NH3 and NO2 in pristine 
and defect mediated Janus WSSe monolayers. Physical 
Chemistry Chemical Physics, 22(25), 13903–13922. ISSN: 
1463-9076, 1463-9084. https://doi.org/10.1039/D0CP02063J
12. Chaurasiya, R., Gupta, G. K., & Dixit, A. (2021). 
Heterostructure AZO/WSeTe/W(S/Se)2 as an Efficient Single 
Junction Solar Cell with Ultrathin Janus WSeTe Buffer Layer. 
The Journal of Physical Chemistry C, 125(8), 4355–4362. 
ISSN: 1932-7447, 1932-7455. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.
jpcc.0c08079
13. Chaurasiya, R., Tyagi, S., Singh, N., Auluck, S., & Dixit, A. 
(2021). Enhancing thermoelectric properties of Janus WSSe 
monolayer by inducing strain mediated valley degeneracy. 
Journal of Alloys and Compounds, 855, 157304. ISSN: 0925-
8388. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2020.157304
14. Das, B. K., Ramachandran, B., Dixit, A., Ramachandra Rao, M. 
S., Naik, R., Sathyanarayana, A. T., Sairam, T. N., & Amarendra, 
G. (2020). Emergence of two-magnon modes below spin-
reorientation transition and phonon-magnon coupling 
in bulk BiFeO3: An infrared spectroscopic study. Journal 
of Alloys and Compounds, 832, 154754. ISSN: 0925-8388. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2020.154754
15. Das, P., Jaiswal, P. K., & Puri, S. (2020). Surface-directed 
spinodal decomposition on morphologically patterned 
substrates. Physical Review E, 102(3), 032801. ISSN: 
2470-0045, 2470-0053. https://doi.org/10.1103/
PhysRevE.102.032801
229
Annual Report 2020_21

16. Das, P., Jaiswal, P. K., & Puri, S. (2020). Surface-directed 
spinodal decomposition on chemically patterned 
substrates. Physical Review E, 102(1), 012803. ISSN: 
2470-0045, 2470-0053. https://doi.org/10.1103/
PhysRevE.102.012803
17. Deepak, G. D., Joshi, N. K., & Prakash, R. (2020). Modal 
analysis of dielectric barrier discharge-based argon cold 
plasma jet. Laser and Particle Beams, 38(4), 229–238. 
ISSN: 0263-0346, 1469-803X. https://doi.org/10.1017/
S0263034620000294
18. Dey, S., Laha, A., & Ghosh, S. (2021). Nonadiabatic modal 
dynamics around a third-order Exceptional Point in a planar 
waveguide. Optics Communications, 483, 126644. ISSN: 
0030-4018. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optcom.2020.126644
19. Dixit, A., Tiwari, B., Ramachandran, B., & Naik, R. (2020). 
Onset of inverse magnetocaloric effect in multiferroic 
FeVO4 below the antiferromagnetic transition temperature 
T. Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials, 515, 
167300. ISSN: 0304-8853. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
jmmm.2020.167300
20. Dixit, K., & Alok, A. K. (2021). New physics effects on 
quantum coherence in neutrino oscillations. The European 
Physical Journal Plus, 136(3), 334. ISSN: 2190-5444. https://
doi.org/10.1140/epjp/s13360-021-01311-4
21. Doley, J., Laha, A., Dey, S., & Ghosh, S. (2020). Effect of a local 
nonlinearity on the light dynamics around an exceptional 
point: A quantitative analysis. Physical Review Research, 
2(2), 023371. ISSN: 2643-1564. https://doi.org/10.1103/
PhysRevResearch.2.023371
22. Dwivedi, S., Singh, V. K., & Roy, A. (2020). Semiclassical limit 
of topological Rényi entropy in 3d Chern-Simons theory. 
Journal of High Energy Physics, 2020(12), 132. ISSN: 1029-
8479. https://doi.org/10.1007/JHEP12(2020)132
23. Gandhi, H. K., Laha, A., & Ghosh, S. (2020). Ultrasensitive 
light confinement: Driven by multiple bound states in the 
continuum. Physical Review A, 102(3), 033528. ISSN: 2469-
9926. https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevA.102.033528
24. Gupta, G. K., & Dixit, A. (2020). Simulation studies on 
photovoltaic response of ultrathin CuSb(S/Se)2 ternary 
compound semiconductors absorber-based single junction 
solar cells. International Journal of Energy Research, 44(5), 
3724–3736. ISSN: 0363-907X, 1099-114X. https://doi.
org/10.1002/er.5158
25. Gupta, G. K., Saini, L., Ojha, S., Tripathi, B., Avasthi, D. K., & 
Dixit, A. (2020). Ag8+ ion irradiation modulated structural, 
microstructural, defect, and magnetization in ZnO thin 
films. Vacuum, 176, 109342. ISSN: 0042-207X. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.vacuum.2020.109342
S., Abdi-Jalebi, M., Sadhanala, A., Tang, M. L., Bakulin, A., 
Beljonne, D., Liu, X., & Rao, A. (2020). Lanthanide-doped 
inorganic nanoparticles turn molecular triplet excitons 
bright. Nature, 587(7835), 594–599. ISSN: 0028-0836, 1476-
4687. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-020-2932-2
27. Kale, A. J., Chaurasiya, R., & Dixit, A. (2021). Inorganic 
Lead-Free Cs2AuBiCl6 Perovskite Absorber and Cu2O Hole 
Transport Material Based Single-Junction Solar Cells with 
22.18% Power Conversion Efficiency. Advanced Theory and 
Simulations, 4(3), 2000224. ISSN: 2513-0390, 2513-0390. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/adts.202000224
28. Katiyar, R. K., Tripathi, B., Palomino, J., Tiwari, A., Adireddy, 
S., Dixit, A., Weiner, B. R., Morell, G., & Katiyar, R. S. (2020). 
Graphene modulated LiMn1.5Ni0.4Cr0.1O4 spinel cathode 
for lithium ion battery. Nano Express, 1(2), 020028. ISSN: 
2632-959X. https://doi.org/10.1088/2632-959X/abadda
29. Kumar, Aditya, Khan, B., Singh, G., Dixit, A., Kumar, U., & 
Singh, M. K. (2020). Structural, microstructure, optical, and 
electrical properties of Ti-doped CaSnO3 prepared by Sol-
Gel chemical route. Physica Scripta, 95(10), 105807. ISSN: 
1402-4896. https://doi.org/10.1088/1402-4896/abb89f
30. Kumar, Aditya, Khan, B., Yadav, V., Dixit, A., Kumar, U., & 
Singh, M. K. (2020). Rietveld refinement, optical, dielectric 
and ac conductivity studies of Ba-doped SrSnO3. Journal 
of Materials Science: Materials in Electronics, 31(19), 
16838–16848. ISSN: 0957-4522, 1573-482X. https://doi.
org/10.1007/s10854-020-04240-7
31. Kumar, N., Chaurasiya, R., & Dixit, A. (2020). Defects and light 
elements (Li, Be, B, C, O and F) driven d0 magnetism in InN 
monolayer. Vacuum, 181, 109720. ISSN: 0042-207X. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.vacuum.2020.109720
32. Laha, A., Beniwal, D., & Ghosh, S. (2021). Successive 
switching among four states in a gain-loss-assisted optical 
microcavity hosting exceptional points up to order four. 
Physical Review A, 103(2), 023526. ISSN: 2469-9926, 2469-
9934. https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevA.103.023526
33. Laha, A., Beniwal, D., Dey, S., Biswas, A., & Ghosh, S. (2020). 
Third-order exceptional point and successive switching 
among three states in an optical microcavity. Physical 
Review A, 101(6), 063829. ISSN: 2469-9926, 2469-9934. 
https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevA.101.063829
34. Laha, A., Dey, S., Gandhi, H. K., Biswas, A., & Ghosh, S. (2020). 
Exceptional Point and toward Mode-Selective Optical 
Isolation. ACS Photonics, 7(4), 967–974. ISSN: 2330-4022, 
2330-4022. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsphotonics.9b01646
35. Lamba, R. P., Hossain, A. M., Agarwal, A., & Prakash, R. (2020). 
Investigations of Discharge Sustenance in a Dielectric 
Barrier-Based Microhollow Cathode. IEEE Transactions on 
Plasma Science, 48(10), 3679–3685. ISSN: 0093-3813, 1939-
9375. https://doi.org/10.1109/TPS.2020.3025073
230
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

36. Lyyra, H., Siltanen, O., Piilo, J., Banerjee, S., & Kuusela, T. 
(2020). Experimental quantum probing measurements with 
no knowledge of the system-probe interaction. Physical 
Review A, 102(2), 022232. ISSN: 2469-9926, 2469-9934. 
https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevA.102.022232
37. Madéo, J., Man, M. K. L., Sahoo, C., Campbell, M., Pareek, 
V., Wong, E. L., Al-Mahboob, A., Chan, N. S., Karmakar, A., 
Mariserla, B. M. K., Li, X., Heinz, T. F., Cao, T., & Dani, K. M. 
(2020). Directly visualizing the momentum-forbidden 
dark excitons and their dynamics in atomically thin 
semiconductors. Science, 370(6521), 1199–1204. ISSN: 
0036-8075, 1095-9203. https://doi.org/10.1126/science.
aba1029
38. Mariserla, B. M. K., Alee, K. S., Kasthuri, S., Gawas, P., Rao, D. 
N., & Nutalapati, V. (2020). Broadband optical power limiting 
with the decoration of TiO2 nanoparticles on graphene 
oxide. Optical Materials, 109, 110366. ISSN: 0925-3467. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.optmat.2020.110366
39. Mishra, Abhishek, Betal, A., Kumar, R., Lama, P., Sahu, S., 
& Metre, R. K. (2021). Dinuclear Monoorganostannoxane 
[(RSnIV)2(μ-OH)(μ-OCH3)Cl4]·CH3OH (R= 2-(Phenylazo)
phenyl) Assembled Using Intramolecular Coordination 
Approach: Design of Organostannoxane-Based NDR Device. 
ACS Applied Electronic Materials, 3(1), 203–210. ISSN: 2637-
6113, 2637-6113. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaelm.0c00774
40. Mishra, Abhishek, Betal, A., Pal, N., Kumar, R., Lama, P., Sahu, 
S., & Metre, R. K. (2020). Molecular Memory Switching 
Device Based on a Tetranuclear Organotin Sulfide Cage 
[(RSnIV)4(μ-S)6]·2CHCl3·4H2O (R = 2-(Phenylazo)phenyl): 
Synthesis, Structure, DFT Studies, and Memristive Behavior. 
ACS Applied Electronic Materials, 2(1), 220–229. ISSN: 2637-
6113, 2637-6113. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaelm.9b00703
41. Naikoo, J., Banerjee, S., & Chandrashekar, C. M. (2020). 
Non-Markovian channel from the reduced dynamics of a 
coin in a quantum walk. Physical Review A, 102(6), 062209. 
ISSN: 2469-9926, 2469-9934. https://doi.org/10.1103/
PhysRevA.102.062209
42. Naikoo, J., Banerjee, S., & Srikanth, R. (2020). Effect of memory 
on the violation of Leggett–Garg inequality. Quantum 
Information Processing, 19(11), 408. ISSN: 1570-0755, 1573-
1332. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11128-020-02905-0
43. Naikoo, J., Banerjee, S., & Srikanth, R. (2021). Quantumness 
of channels. Quantum Information Processing, 20(1), 32. 
ISSN: 1570-0755, 1573-1332. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s11128-020-02958-1
44. Naikoo, J., Kumari, S., Banerjee, S., & Pan, A. K. (2020). 
Probing inequivalent forms of Leggett–Garg inequality 
in subatomic systems. Journal of Physics G: Nuclear and 
Particle Physics, 47(9), 095004. ISSN: 0954-3899, 1361-6471. 
https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-6471/ab9f9b
45. Oberoi, D., Dagar, P., Shankar, U., Sahu, S., & Bandyopadhyay, 
A. (2020). Stabilization of Pristine Low Resistive State in a 
Ruthenium(II)‐Polymer of a Hexadentate Schiff Base Ligand: 
Synthesis, Characterization, and Application as Non‐Volatile 
Memory Device. European Journal of Inorganic Chemistry, 
2020(32), 3048–3058. ISSN: 1434-1948, 1099-0682. https://
doi.org/10.1002/ejic.202000303
46. Oberoi, D., Shankar, U., Dagar, P., Sahu, S., & Bandyopadhyay, 
A. (2020). Electrochromic and bipolar memory switching 
properties of novel Eu(III)-polymer of multidentate Schiff’s 
base ligand. Journal of Materials Science: Materials in 
Electronics, 31(22), 20345–20359. ISSN: 0957-4522, 1573-
482X. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10854-020-04554-6
47. Pal, M., Diliegros‐Godines, C. J., Gupta, G. K., Mathews, N. 
R., & Dixit, A. (2020). Structural evolution of chemically 
deposited binary stacks of Sb2S3-CuS to phase-pure 
CuSbS2 thin films and evaluation of device parameters of 
CuSbS2/CdS heterojunction. International Journal of Energy 
Research, 44(7), 5881–5894. ISSN: 0363-907X, 1099-114X. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/er.5359
48. Pandey, Akhilesh, Dalal, S., Dutta, S., & Dixit, A. (2021). 
Structural characterization of polycrystalline thin films by 
X-ray diffraction techniques. Journal of Materials Science: 
Materials in Electronics, 32(2), 1341–1368. ISSN: 0957-4522, 
1573-482X. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10854-020-04998-w
49. Priya, M., & Jaiswal, P. K. (2020). Enhanced attraction 
between particles in a bidisperse mixture with random pair-
wise interactions. Phase Transitions, 93(9), 895–908. ISSN: 
0141-1594, 1029-0338. https://doi.org/10.1080/01411594.2
020.1813287
50. Priya, M., Jaiswal, P. K., & Shrimali, M. D. (2020). Host–parasite 
coevolution: Role of selection, mutation, and asexual 
reproduction on evolvability. Chaos: An Interdisciplinary 
Journal of Nonlinear Science, 30(7), 073103. ISSN: 1054-
1500, 1089-7682. https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0010057
51. Rahil, M., Mushtaq, N., Ansari, H. R., Alam, Mohd. K., & 
Ahmad, S. (2020). Exciton tunability in mixed halide 
hybrid layered perovskites. AIP Conference Proceedings, 
2276(1), 020043. ISSN: 0094-243X. https://doi.
org/10.1063/5.0025729
52. Rahil, M., Rajput, P., Ghosh, D., & Ahmad, S. (2020). Highly 
Tunable Single-Phase Excitons in Mixed Halide Layered 
Perovskites. ACS Applied Electronic Materials, 2(10), 3199–
3210. ISSN: 2637-6113, 2637-6113. https://doi.org/10.1021/
acsaelm.0c00554
53. Rojaee, R., Cavallo, S., Mogurampelly, S., Wheatle, B. K., 
Yurkiv, V., Deivanayagam, R., Foroozan, T., Rasul, M. G., 
Sharifi‐Asl, S., Phakatkar, A. H., Cheng, M., Son, S., Pan, Y., 
Mashayek, F., Ganesan, V., & Shahbazian‐Yassar, R. (2020). 
Highly‐Cyclable Room‐Temperature Phosphorene Polymer
231
Annual Report 2020_21

Electrolyte Composites for Li Metal Batteries. Advanced 
Functional Materials, 30(32), 1910749. ISSN: 1616-301X, 
1616-3028. https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201910749
54. Roy, A., Biswas, A., Varshney, R. K., & Ghosh, S. (2020). Highly 
sensitive refractive index sensor based on degeneracy 
in specialty optical fibers: a new approach. Microsystem 
Technologies, 26(10), 3063–3068. ISSN: 0946-7076, 1432-
1858. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00542-017-3622-3
55. Sahani, R. M., Kumari, C., Pandya, A., & Dixit, A. (2020). 
Author Correction: Efficient Alpha Radiation Detector using 
Low Temperature Hydrothermally Grown ZnO:Ga Nanorod 
Scintillator. Scientific Reports, 10(1), 3334. ISSN: 2045-2322. 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-020-60513-5
56. Sahu, A., Garg, A., & Dixit, A. (2020). A review on quantum 
dot sensitized solar cells: Past, present and future towards 
carrier multiplication with a possibility for higher efficiency. 
Solar Energy, 203, 210–239. ISSN: 0038-092X. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.solener.2020.04.044
57. Saini, L., Kumar Patra, M., & Dixit, A. (2020). Large scale 
re-producible synthesis and magnetic properties of Ni/
graphite core-shell nanostructured materials. Journal of 
Magnetism and Magnetic Materials, 501, 166444. ISSN: 
0304-8853. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmmm.2020.166444
58. Sakhuja, N., Jha, R. K., Chaurasiya, R., Dixit, A., & Bhat, N. 
(2020). 1T-Phase Titanium Disulfide Nanosheets for Sensing 
H2S and O2. ACS Applied Nano Materials, 3(4), 3382–3394. 
ISSN: 2574-0970, 2574-0970. https://doi.org/10.1021/
acsanm.0c00127
59. Sanchez-Castro, N., Palomino-Ovando, M. A., Singh, P., Sahu, 
S., Toledo-Solano, M., Faubert, J., Lugo, J. E., Bandyopadhyay, 
A., & Ray, K. (2021). Microtubules as One-Dimensional 
Crystals: Is Crystal-Like Structure the Key to the Information 
Processing of Living Systems? Crystals, 11(3), 318. ISSN: 
2073-4352. https://doi.org/10.3390/cryst11030318
60. Shah, A. A., Ahmad, S., & Azam, A. (2020). Investigation 
of structural, optical, dielectric and magnetic properties 
of LaNiO3 and LaNi1−xMxO3 (M = Fe, Cr & Co; x = 5%) 
nanoparticles. Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic 
Materials, 494, 165812. ISSN: 0304-8853. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.jmmm.2019.165812
61. Sharma, Vishal, & Banerjee, S. (2020). Quantum 
communication using code division multiple access 
network. Optical and Quantum Electronics, 52(8), 381. ISSN: 
0306-8919, 1572-817X. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11082-020-
02494-3
62. Sivaprakash, P., Kumar, K. A., Muthukumaran, S., 
Pandurangan, A., Dixit, A., & Arumugam, S. (2020). NiF2 as 
an efficient electrode material with high window potential 
of 1.8 V for high energy and power density asymmetric
supercapacitor. Journal of Electroanalytical Chemistry, 
873, 114379. ISSN: 1572-6657. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
jelechem.2020.114379
63. Thapa, V. B., & Sinha, M. (2020). Dense matter equation of 
state of a massive neutron star with antikaon condensation. 
Physical Review D, 102(12), 123007. ISSN: 2470-0010, 2470-
0029. https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevD.102.123007
64. Thapa, V. B., Sinha, M., Li, J. J., & Sedrakian, A. (2020). 
Equation of State of Strongly Magnetized Matter with 
Hyperons and Δ-Resonances. Particles, 3(4), 660–675. ISSN: 
2571-712X. https://doi.org/10.3390/particles3040043
65. Thapa, V. B., Sinha, M., Li, J. J., & Sedrakian, A. (2021). 
Massive Δ -resonance admixed hypernuclear stars with 
antikaon condensations. Physical Review D, 103(6), 063004. 
ISSN: 2470-0010, 2470-0029. https://doi.org/10.1103/
PhysRevD.103.063004
66. Tiwari, B., Dixit, A., & Rao, M. S. R. (2020). Magnetic entropy 
change in a non-collinear weak ferromagnetic YCrO3. 
Vacuum, 179, 109519. ISSN: 0042-207X. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.vacuum.2020.109519
67. Utagi, S., Rao, V. N., Srikanth, R., & Banerjee, S. (2020). A 
Class of Quasi-Eternal Non-Markovian Pauli Channels and 
Their Measure. Open Systems & Information Dynamics, 
27(04), 2050019. ISSN: 1230-1612, 1793-7191. https://doi.
org/10.1142/S1230161220500195
68. Utagi, S., Srikanth, R., & Banerjee, S. (2020). Ping-pong 
quantum key distribution with trusted noise: non-
Markovian advantage. Quantum Information Processing, 
19(10), 366. ISSN: 1570-0755, 1573-1332. https://doi.
org/10.1007/s11128-020-02874-4
69. Utagi, S., Srikanth, R., & Banerjee, S. (2020). Temporal 
self-similarity of quantum dynamical maps as a concept 
of memorylessness. Scientific Reports, 10(1), 15049. ISSN: 
2045-2322. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-020-72211-3
70. Vajpayee, M., Singh, M., Ledwani, L., Prakash, R., & Nema, 
S. K. (2020). Investigation of Antimicrobial Activity of DBD 
Air Plasma-Treated Banana Fabric Coated with Natural Leaf 
Extracts. ACS Omega, 5(30), 19034–19049. ISSN: 2470-1343, 
2470-1343. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.0c02380
71. Vavilapalli, D. S., Melvin, A. A., Bellarmine, F., Mannam, R., 
Velaga, S., Poswal, H. K., Dixit, A., Rao, M. S. R., & Singh, 
S. (2020). Growth of sillenite Bi12FeO20 single crystals: 
structural, thermal, optical, photocatalytic features and first 
principle calculations. Scientific Reports, 10(1), 22052. ISSN: 
2045-2322. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-020-78598-3
Conference Papers
1.	
Bhattacherjee, S., & Ghosh, S. (2020). Transverse Localization 
of light: Towards a paradigm shift from trivial to non-trivial
232
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

lattice. 14th Pacific Rim Conference on Lasers and Electro-
Optics (CLEO PR 2020), C1H_4. Sydney: OSA. ISBN: 978-0-
646-82504-5. https://doi.org/10.1364/CLEOPR.2020.C1H_4
2.	
Biswas, P., & Ghosh, S. (2020). A Specialty Endless-Core 
Photonic Bandgap Fiber with Ultra-wide Bandwidth for 
Short Pulse Propagation. Frontiers in Optics / Laser Science, 
JTu1A.29. Washington, DC: OSA. ISBN: 978-1-943580-80-4. 
https://doi.org/10.1364/FIO.2020.JTu1A.29
3.	
Dey, S., Laha, A., & Ghosh, S. (2020). Modal dynamics 
around a fourth-order exceptional point in a planar optical 
waveguide. Frontiers in Optics / Laser Science, JTu1B.5. 
Washington, DC: OSA. ISBN: 978-1-943580-80-4. https://doi.
org/10.1364/FIO.2020.JTu1B.5
4.	
Gandhi, H. K., & Ghosh, S. (2020). Ultra-high sensitivity near 
multiple bound states in the continuum in microcavity 
resonators. 14th Pacific Rim Conference on Lasers and 
Electro-Optics (CLEO PR 2020), P4_7. Sydney: OSA. ISBN: 
978-0-646-82504-5. https://doi.org/10.1364/CLEOPR.2020.
P4_7
5.	
Kumbhakar, S., Alok, A. K., & Uma Sankar, S. (2021). 
Discriminating New Physics in b→sμ+μ− via Transverse 
Polarization Asymmetry of K∗ Meson. Proceedings of 
40th International Conference on High Energy Physics — 
PoS(ICHEP2020), 390, 446. Prague, Czech Republic: SISSA 
Medialab. https://doi.org/10.22323/1.390.0446
6.	
Laha, A., Dey, S., Gandhi, H. K., & Ghosh, S. (2020). 
Complementary Optical Systems to Host Conjugate 
Exceptional Points. Frontiers in Optics / Laser Science, 
FTu8E.5. Washington, DC: OSA. ISBN: 978-1-943580-80-4. 
https://doi.org/10.1364/FIO.2020.FTu8E.5
7.	
Madéo, J., Man, M. K. L., Sahoo, C., Campbell, M., Pareek, 
V., Wong, E. L., Mahboob, A. A., Chan, N. S., Karmakar, A., 
Mariserla, B. M. K., Li, X., Heinz, T. F., Cao, T., & Dani, K. M. 
(2020). Time-resolved ARPES of excitons in an atomically 
thin semiconductor. The 22nd International Conference on 
Ultrafast Phenomena 2020, M3A.3. Washington, D.C.: OSA. 
ISBN: 978-1-943580-83-5. https://doi.org/10.1364/UP.2020.
M3A.3
8.	
Sadhukhan, S., Laha, A., Biswas, A., & Ghosh, S. (2020). 
Photonic Crystal Based Ultra-Sensitive Interferometric 
Nanometer Displacement Sensor. Frontiers in Optics / 
Laser Science, JTu1A.3. Washington, DC: OSA. ISBN: 978-1-
943580-80-4. https://doi.org/10.1364/FIO.2020.JTu1A.3
Book Chapters
1.	
Singh, P., Sahoo, P., Saxena, K., Ghosh, S., Sahu, S., Ray, 
K., Fujita, D., & Bandyopadhyay, A. (2021). A Space-
Time-Topology-Prime, stTS Metric for a Self-operating 
Mathematical Universe Uses Dodecanion Geometric 
Algebra of 2-20 D Complex Vectors. In K. Ray, K. C. Roy, 
S. K. Toshniwal, H. Sharma, & A. Bandyopadhyay (Eds.), 
Proceedings of International Conference on Data Science
and Applications (pp. 1–31). Singapore: Springer. ISBN: 
9789811575617. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-15-7561-
7_1
2.	
Singh, P., Sahoo, P., Saxena, K., Ghosh, S., Sahu, S., Ray, K., 
Fujita, D., & Bandyopadhyay, A. (2021). Quaternion, Octonion 
to Dodecanion Manifold: Stereographic Projections from 
Infinity Lead to a Self-operating Mathematical Universe. 
In Phool Singh, R. K. Gupta, K. Ray, & A. Bandyopadhyay 
(Eds.), Proceedings of International Conference on Trends 
in Computational and Cognitive Engineering (pp. 55–77). 
Singapore: Springer. ISBN: 9789811554148. https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-981-15-5414-8_5
School of Management & 
Entrepreneurship
Journal Papers
1.	
Aggarwal, M. (2020). Representing uncertainty about fuzzy 
membership grade. Soft Computing, 24(17), 12691–12707. 
ISSN: 1432-7643, 1433-7479. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s00500-020-05050-z
2.	
Aggarwal, M. (2021). Redefining fuzzy entropy with a 
general framework. Expert Systems with Applications, 
164, 113671. ISSN: 0957-4174. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
eswa.2020.113671
3.	
Ahmed, M., & Pratap, S. (2021). Constraint absorption 
in emerging economies: the role of business groups. 
International Journal of Organizational Analysis, ahead-of-
print(ahead-of-print). ISSN: 1934-8835, 1934-8835. https://
doi.org/10.1108/IJOA-11-2019-1927
4.	
Ghosh, D., Sant, T. G., Kuiti, M. R., Swami, S., & Shankar, 
R. (2020). Strategic decisions, competition and cost-
sharing contract under industry 4.0 and environmental 
considerations. Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 
162, 105057. ISSN: 0921-3449. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
resconrec.2020.105057
5.	
Krishankumar, R., Rani, P., Ravichandran, K. S., Aggarwal, 
M., & Peng, X. (2021). An integrated and discriminative 
approach for group decision-making with probabilistic 
linguistic information. Soft Computing, 25(4), 3043–3057. 
ISSN: 1432-7643, 1433-7479. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s00500-020-05361-1
6.	
Kuiti, M. R., Ghosh, D., Basu, P., & Bisi, A. (2020). Do cap-
and-trade policies drive environmental and social goals 
in supply chains: Strategic decisions, collaboration, and 
contract choices. International Journal of Production 
Economics, 223, 107537. ISSN: 0925-5273. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.ijpe.2019.107537
7.	
Kumar, Anil, Prakash, G., & Kumar, G. (2021). Does 
environmentally responsible purchase intention matter 
for consumers? A predictive sustainable model developed 
through an empirical study. Journal of Retailing and 
Consumer Services, 58, 102270. ISSN: 0969-6989. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.jretconser.2020.102270
233
Annual Report 2020_21

Awards & Recognitions
Faculty Members
Amit Mishra, Associate Professor, received the following:
(i)	
Life Membership of Society of Biological Chemists of India, 
IISc Bangalore
(ii) IIT Jodhpur Research Excellence Award
(iii) Life Membership of Translational Biomedical Research 
Society India
Neha Jain, Assistant Professor, received the following:
(i)	
EMBO travel grant to attend EMBO workshop on 
Intrinsically Disordered Proteins: From molecules to 
systems, during December 2019.
(ii) ASM (American Society for Microbiology)-IUSSTF (Indo-
US Science and Technology Forum) Visiting Research 
Professorship to conduct research at Temple University, 
Philadelphia, USA, from June-July 2019.
(iii) Early career research award (ECRA) by Science and 
Engineering Research Board (SERB) from 2019 to 2022.
(iv) Invitation as “Young Investigator Speaker” in Fluorescence 
and Raman Spectroscopy (FCS) workshop held at Tata 
Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Hyderabad, 
during December 2019.
Priyanka Singh, Assistant Professor, Department of Bioscience and 
Bioengineering, is the recipient of the “Young Scientist Research 
Award” from the Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), 
Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Government of India.
Surajit Ghosh, Professor, received the following:
(i)	
Expert Membership on Neuroscience in BRICS Meeting, 25-
26 May 2021
(ii) SERB STAR award for 2020
(iii) Special invitation as PAC member for SERB
(iv) CDRI Award 2020 for Excellence in Drug Research in the 
chemical sciences category
Sushmita Jha, Associate Professor, received the Kusum Sharma 
Award for Young Woman Scientist from the Indian Academy of 
Biomedical Sciences, 2021.
Indranil Banerjee, Associate Professor, became Associate Editor 
for the Journal of Frontiers in Medical Technology.
Raviraj Vankayala, Assistant Professor, became Review Editor for 
Frontiers in Bioengineering and Biotechnology and Frontiers 
in Molecular Biosciences journals. Also, he became Topic Editor 
for Frontiers in Nanotechnology journal for a special issue 
“Multifunctional Nanomaterials for Biosensors and Therapeutics”
.
Sucharita Dey, Assistant Professor, received the Ramalingaswami 
re-entry Fellowship (2020-21) from the Department of 
Biotechnology, Government of India.
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
234
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Faculty Members
1.	
Sandip Murarka, Assistant Professor, has been elected as a 
Fellow of the Indian Chemical Society (FICS).
2.	
Rakesh K. Sharma, Associate Professor, has been elected as 
the Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry, (RSC), London.
3.	
Ritu Gupta, Assistant Professor, has been selected for INSA 
Young Scientist Medal 2020.
4.	
Ritu Gupta, Assistant Professor, has been inducted as an 
Associate of the Indian Academy of Sciences (IAS), Bangalore.
Faculty Members
1.	
Deepika Bhattu, Assistant Professor, has been appointed as 
the Nodal Officer by Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board 
as the Institute was empanelled as Environmental Auditor.
2.	
Deepika Bhattu, Assistant Professor, and Ranju 
Mohan, Assistant Professor, have been selected as the 
representatives of the Institute of Repute, for the National
Knowledge Network (NKN) under the National Clean Air 
Program (NCAP).
3.	
P. Ravi Prakash, Assistant Professor, has joined the editorial 
board of the “Frontiers in Built Environment (Sustainable 
Design and Construction).
Faculty Members
1.	
Anand Mishra
■
Honoured with the IIT Jodhpur Teaching Excellence 
Award 2020
2.	
Debasis Das
■
IEEE Senior Membership
3.	
Richa Singh
■
Elected as IEEE Fellow
National/International Committees
1.	
Debasis Das
■
Subject Expert, Student Learning Assessment (SLA) 
Project, 2021, AICTE (National level initiative to 
understand the Level and Gains of students studying in 
Technical Institutions of India).
■
Young Researcher Symposium program committee 
Member, CODS-COMAD 2022
■
Poster Chair in the ACM 23rd International Conference 
on Distributed Computing and Networking (ICDCN 
2022)
2.	
Mayank Vatsa
■
Member, NITI Aayog and World Economic Forum 
Committee for Responsible AI
■
Member, Confederation of Indian Industry, 2018 - 2020
■
Expert Committee Member for DIGIYatra, NITI Aayog 
and AAI, 2021
3.	
Somitra Sanadhya
■
Jury committee member, Cybersecurity Grand 
Challenge, Ministry of Electronics and Information 
Technology (MEITY)
Journal Editorship
1.	
Mayank Vatsa
■
Associate Editor, Pattern Recognition, Elsevier
■
Area Editor, Journal of Information Fusion, Elsevier
Faculty Members
1.	
Angan Sengupta, Assistant Professor, received Young Scientist Award on International Scientist Awards on Engineering, Science and 
Medicine, 2021.
Department of Chemistry
Department of Civil & Infrastructure Engineering
Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Department of Chemical Engineering
235
Annual Report 2020_21

2.	
Richa Singh
■
Associate Editor, Computer Vision and Image 
Understanding, Elsevier
■
Associate Editor-in-Chief, Pattern Recognition, Elsevier
Conference Organizing Committee Member
1.	
Dip Sankar Banerjee
■
Co-Chair, Student Research Symposium, IEEE HiPC 
Conference, 2021
2.	
Mayank Vatsa
■
General Co-Chair, CVPR Second Workshop on Fair, Data 
Efficient, and Trusted Computer Vision, to be held in 
June 2021
■
General Co-Chair, Meta Learning for Computer Vision 
Workshop @ AAAI 2021, Virtual, February 2021
■
General Co-Chair, IEEE International Joint Conference 
on Biometrics, Virtual, September 2020
■
General Co-Chair, CVPR Workshop on Fair, Data 
Efficient, and Trusted Computer Vision, Virtual, June 
2020
■
Program Co-Chair, IEEE International Conference on 
Face and Gesture Recognition, India, to be held in 
December 2021
■
Program Co-Chair, IEEE International Conference on 
Advanced Video and Signal based Surveillance, USA, to 
be held in September 2021
■
Area Chair, IEEE International Conference on Computer 
Vision, to be held in 2021
■
Area Chair, Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern 
Recognition, to be held in 2022
■
Senior Program Committee Member, AAAI Conference 
on Artificial Intelligence, January 2021
3.	
Richa Singh
■
Area Chair, IAPR International Conference on Pattern 
Recognition, Italy, January 2021
■
Area Chair, IEEE International Conference on Automatic 
Face and Gesture Recognition, Argentina, 2020
■
Meta Reviewer, International Conference on Computer 
Vision
■
Finance Chair, International Conference on Multimodal 
Interaction, Montreal, Canada, 2021
■
PC Co-Chair, IEEE International Joint Conference on 
Biometrics, Houston, USA, September 2020
■
General Co-Chair, IEEE International Conference on 
Face and Gesture Recognition, India, 2021
■
Associate Editor, EURASIP International Journal of 
Image and Video Processing, SpringerOpen
■
Vice President, IEEE Biometrics Committee
■
AAAI 2021 Workshop on Meta-Learning for Computer 
Vision, 2021
■
IEEE CVPR Workshop on Fair, Data Efficient and Trusted 
Computer Vision, 2021
4.	
Somitra Sanadhya
■
Chair, 18th IFIP WG 11.9 international conference on 
digital forensics 2022.
5.	
Suchetana Chakraborty
■
Tutorial Co-chair, IEEE ANTS 2021
Conference Program Committee Members
1.	
Anand Mishra
■
International Conference on Computer Vision 2021
■
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern 
Recognition, 2021
■
Association for the Advancement of Artificial 
Intelligence 2021
■
IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine 
Intelligence
■
International Journal on Computer Vision
■
ACM India Joint International Conference on Data 
Science and Management of Data 2021
2.	
Debasis Das
■
European Conference on Machine Learning and 
Principles and Practice of Knowledge Discovery in 
Databases 2021
3.	
Dip Sankar Banerjee
■
IEEE International Conference on High Performance 
Computing, Data, and Analytics 2021
4.	
Mayank Vatsa
■
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2020
■
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 2020
5.	
Richa Singh
■
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern 
Recognition 2020
■
IEEE International Conference on Image 
Processing2020
■
European Conference on Computer Vision 2020
■
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence , 2020
6.	
Suchetana Chakraborty
■
IEEE Conference on Local Computer Networks 2021
■
International Conference on COMmunication Systems 
& NETworks (COMSNETS) 2022
236
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

7.	
Pallavi Jain
■
31st International Joint Conference on Artificial 
Intelligence (IJCAI-22)
■
European Conference on Multi-Agent Systems 2021
■
Senior Program Committee Member of 30th 
International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence 
(IJCAI-21)
■
Thirty-Fifth AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence 
(AAAI-21)
8.	
Romi Banerjee
■
6th Annual Meeting of the Society for the 
Neuroscience of Creativity (SfNC) - 2020
9.	
Somitra Sanadhya
■
International Conference on Security, Privacy and 
Applied Cryptographic Engineering (Indocrypt), 2021
■
International Conference on Cryptology in India 2021
10. Yashaswi Verma
■
Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision 
2020
■
Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge Discovery and 
Data Mining 2021
■
Association for the Advancement of Artificial 
Intelligence 2021
■
International Conference on Computer Vision 2021
Niveditta
■
Won the Carolyn Leighton Scholarship to attend WITI’s 27th 
Annual Global Summit, 2021.
Shreyansh Sharma
■
Awarded the Linux Foundation Training (LiFT) Scholarship, 
2021.
Kartik Vyas
■
Summer intern at Morgan Stanley - was featured on the 
‘Morgan Stanley’s Headquarters signage’ in Times Square, 
New York.
Bharat Biradar, Dhruv Patel, and Gagandeep Singh
■
Selected for the Google Summer of Code 2021.
Bhumika, Jayant, Lokendra, Shreyansh and Ankur
■
Won the Student’s Pitch Competition, organized as part of 
Industry Day 2021.
Ankur Nahar
■
Received the USENIX Annual Technical Conference (ATC) 
2021 Student Grant.
Lokendra Vishwakarma, Jayant Vyas, and Ankur Nahar
■
Received the ACM SIGMATRICS 2021 Student Grant.
Jayant Vyas
■
Selected for the ACM India 2021 Anveshan Setu Fellowship, 
2021.
Shashwat Kathuria
■
Selected for the Google Summer of Code 2020.
Ankur Nahar
■
Received the ACM India Travel Award for presenting his 
research at IFIP Networking 2020, Paris, France.
Faculty Members
1.	
Sandeep Yadav and Deepak Fulwani received the 2020 
Teaching Excellence Award (IIT Jodhpur).
2.	
Mahesh Kumar received the following awards and 
recognitions:
■
Research Excellence Award 2020 from IIT Jodhpur
■
Fulbright-Nehru Academic and Professional Excellence 
Fellowships to work at MIT, USA
■
DUO-India Fellowship to work at University of 
Stuttgart, Germany
Also, Mahesh Kumar received the following positions/
editorial appointments:
■
Membership of Subject Expert Group (SEG): 
Participation in School Education, Unnat Bharat 
Abhiyan
■
Core Membership of the SERB Expert Committee-
Engineering Sciences (SRG, NPDF and ECRA schemes)
■
Membership of Programme Advisory Committee (PAC) 
of SERB-POWER (Promoting Opportunities for Women 
in Exploratory Research)
Department of Electrical Engineering
237
Annual Report 2020_21

■
Membership of SERB Review/Monitoring meeting of 
Engineering Science scheme (Electrical & Electronics 
Engineering)
■
Membership of SERB SUPRA Screening Committee
■
Membership of Programme Advisory Committee 
on Technology Development Programme under 
Technology Development & Transfer Division, 
Department of Science and Technology.
■
Associate Editorship, IEEE Sensors Journal, IEEE 
Publisher
■
Executive Editorial Board Membership of Nano Express, 
IOP Publisher
■
Associate Editorship for Frontiers in Sensors, Frontiers 
Publisher
3. Jai Narayan Tripathi received the following editorial 
appointments:
■
Guest Editorship on the Editorial Board of IEEE 
Transactions on Components, Packaging and 
Manufacturing Technology, for 2 years (w.e.f. Oct 2020).
■
Membership of the Editorial Board of IEEE Open 
Journal of Circuits and Systems.
4. Harshit Agarwal was selected for the prestigious 2020 IEEE 
Electron Device Society Early Career Award. Also, Harshit 
Agarwal has been appointed as a member of the IEEE EDS 
Compact Modeling Committee for two years.
5. Saakshi Dhanekar was inducted as the Associate Editor of 
IEEE Sensors Letters (Sep 2020).
6. Amandeep Kaur received the BIRAC-BIG Project for 
designing a high-resolution endoscopic camera system.
7. The following papers became one of the Popular 
Documents/50-Most Accessed Documents on IEEE Xplore 
platform.
(i) Aashish Mathur, IEEE Communications Letters, 
February 2021. Reconfigurable Intelligent Surface for 
Mixed FSO-RF Systems with Co-Channel Interference.
(ii) Soumava Mukherjee, Electronic Letters, September 
2020. Dual-mode SICL bandpass filter with via based 
perturbation technique for Ku-band.
Staff Member(s)
Gajraj Sharma, Technical Assistant, received the 2020 
Meritorious Staff Award.
Students
1.	
Rahul Kumar received the C. V. Raman Gold Medal 2020 for 
Best Thesis among students of all PhD Programs during the 
6th Convocation.
2.	
Ashok Kumar received the Prime Minister's Research 
Fellowship (PMRF)
3.	
Idury Satya Krishna received the following:
■
European Microwave Conference Student Grant Award 
for EuMC, Paris, France, 28 September - 4 October 2020.
■
European Microwave Association (EuMA) Internship 
award.
Faculty Members
1. Alok Ranjan, Assistant Professor, received the Fulbright- 
Nehru Postdoctoral Fellowship, 2020-2021.
2.	
Farhat Naz, Assistant Professor, was awarded the Shastri 
Indo-Canadian Institute, Golden Jubilee Conference and 
Lecture Series Grant, in January 2021.
Students
1.	
Sushmita Chandel has been selected for ACM India 
Anveshan Setu Fellowship 2021.
2.	
Parakala Vishnu Bayari has been selected for ACM India 
Anveshan Setu Fellowship 2021.
Department of Humanities & Social Science
Department of Mechanical Engineering
238
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Faculty Members
1.	
Jaiveer Singh became National Advisory Board Member 
of “International Conference on Advances in Materials 
Processing and Manufacturing Application (iCADMA 2020)” 
sponsored by SPARC, MHRD India and organized by MNIT 
Jaipur.
2.	
Shobhana Singh received the Best paper presentation award 
in the 2nd International Conference on Future Learning 
Aspects of Mechanical Engineering (FLAME - 2020), 5th - 7th 
August 2020.
3.	
Anand Plappally received First prize in short invited lecture 
at the Fifth International Online Conference in Reuse and 
Recycling of Materials (Polymers, Wood, Paper, Leather, 
Glass, Metals, Ceramics, Semi-Conductors, Water etc.) 
and their products (ICRM-2020), 11-13 December 2020, 
Kottayam, Kerala, jointly organized by Mahatma Gandhi 
University, Kottayam, Kerala, India and Wroclaw University of 
Technology, Wroclaw, Poland
Students
1.	
Shubhanshu Rai has been awarded an honorarium on 
the selection of his project titled “Natural Convection in 
an Enclosure Heated From Bottom using OpenFOAM” for 
the case studied under the Free/Libre and Open Source 
Software for Education (FOSSEE) program by IIT Bombay.
2.	
Best Paper Presentation Award: Bikash Pattanayak, Harsh 
Deswal, Vivek Saxena, Hardik Kothadia, “Effect of strip 
orientations and geometry on the critical heat flux in 
pool boiling”
, 2nd International Conference on Future 
Learning Aspects of Mechanical Engineering (FLAME) Amity 
University Uttar Pradesh, 2020
3.	
Pankaj Jakhar, IAIN Fellowship 2020-2021, SIIC, IIT Kanpur 
with a company spin-off named Unnada Pvt Ltd.
Faculty Members
1.	
Subhashish Banerjee, Associate Professor, has been elected 
as the Fellow of the National Academy of Sciences, India 
(NASI).
2.	
Shahab Ahmad’s (Assistant Professor) collaborative research 
work on Lanthanide-doped Nanocrystals for Bright Triplet 
Excitons is highlighted in Phys.org https://phys.org/
news/2020-11-lanthanide-nanocrystals-brighten-molecular-
triplet.html
3.	
Somnath Ghosh, Assistant Professor, received the Research 
Excellence Award from IIT Jodhpur 2020.
4.	
Subhashish Banerjee, Associate Professor, received the 
Research Excellence Award from IIT Jodhpur 2020.
Students
1.	
Khusbhoo Dixit joined as a postdoctoral fellow at the 
Department of Physics, IIT Bombay.
2.	
Shweta Yadav was selected for PhD at the University of 
Texas Arlington, USA.
3.	
Manisha was selected for PhD at the Technical University of 
Darmstadt, Germany.
Faculty
1.	
Gaurav Kumar, along with Cal Muckley, Linh Pham, Darragh 
Ryan, became Runners Up in the 2020 Research Impact Case 
Study Competition organised by UCD Dublin, Ireland, 2021.
2.	
Anuj Pal Kapoor became UNESCO Fellow
3.	
Akanksha Choudhary received the RDW Fellowship award 
from International Labour Organization (ILO)
4.	
Akanksha Choudhary received Excellence in research/Best 
Thesis award from IIT Bombay
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Department of Physics
School of Management & Entrepreneurship
239
Annual Report 2020_21

Events

Events
Dr. B. R. Ambedkar Jayanti, 
14 April 2020
Dr. Ambedkar is known as the principal architect of the 
Constitution of India and has been bestowed with the country’s 
highest civilian honor – the Bharat Ratna. On Ambedkar Jayanti, 
also known as Bhim Jayanti, the Committee for Celebration of 
Commemorative Days (CCCD) organized an Essay Contest and 
an Art Competition (painting/sketch/collage/poster/video) 
open to all students, faculty, staff and family members. The 
themes revolved around the values of social equality, social 
justice, law and Constitution as embodied by Dr. Ambedkar.
National Technology Day, 11 May 2020
IIT Jodhpur celebrated National Technology Day on May 11, 
2020 with a Webinar Panel on Technological Innovations at 
IIT Jodhpur in the fight against Covid-19 Pandemic. National 
Technology Day marks the anniversary of this day in 1998 
when India achieved a major technological breakthrough by 
successfully carrying out nuclear tests at Pokhran, Rajasthan. 
In today’s difficult times, this day has a special significance as 
it celebrates everyone who is leveraging technology to bring 
a positive difference in the lives of others. The fraternity of IIT 
Jodhpur has taken remarkable initiatives during these trying 
times of the Covid-19 global pandemic. IIT Jodhpur applauded 
all the teams (such as those of Prof. Nirmal Rana and Prof. 
Kaushal Desai), who have successfully delivered hand sanitisers 
and face shields, and other teams who had been working
tirelessly on developing systems to decontaminate N95 masks, 
(iii) AI-driven diagnostics using X-ray and CT-images of lungs, 
and (iii) a Hindi chatbot to provide diagnostic guidance.
The webinar included talks by four faculty members who 
presented the contributions made by their respective teams, 
and was live-streamed on Google Meet for the students at 
home. The panelists included Prof. P. K. Tewari (Visiting 
Professor and Head of Department of Chemical Engineering) 
who talked about the water-related issues during and 
after COVID-19 pandemic, particularly the challenges and 
opportunities; Prof. Ram Prakash (Department of Physics) 
who presented his team’s work on Photocatalytic Oxidation 
Sterilization System for treating the N95 Facemask Respirators 
used by healthcare workers so that they may be reused. 
Dr. Sumit Kalra (Department of Computer Science and 
Engineering) presented NextGen Smart Telemedicine Portal for 
scalable and contactless healthcare services, and Prof. Mayank 
Vatsa (Department of Computer Science and Engineering) 
talked about the AI-based technology intervention from his 
team during this pandemic. The webinars were followed by 
remarks by the Director, Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, who 
highlighted the value of science and technology being realized 
around the world during this pandemic, and congratulated 
all the students who worked remotely and contributed to the 
innovations despite the lockdown.
Celebration of National Festivals & Observance of Days 
of National Importance
241
Annual Report 2020_21

International Day of Yoga, 21 June 2020
IIT Jodhpur celebrated International Day of Yoga on 21 
June 2020 with warm and enthusiastic participation from 
students, faculty and staff members and their families. The 
event was coordinated by the Committee for Celebration 
of Commemorative Days (CCCD) and the Student Sports 
and Games Society. In adherence to the Ministry’s office 
memorandum dated 16 June 2020 in view of the pandemic, 
the IITJ fraternity practised Yoga-at-home. On 21 June 2020 
at 7 am, the entire IITJ fraternity wholeheartedly watched the 
Live Telecast of the Common Yoga Protocol (CYP) Session and 
practised yoga-at-home. Many members also joined the virtual 
meeting event to watch and practice yoga together while at 
their respective homes. Following the live CYP session, an online 
talk on mental health and stress relief titled ‘How Yoga can open 
up doors of positive living for us’ was delivered by Mr. Prasad 
Gadkari (Student Counselor and Consultant Psychologist, IIT 
Jodhpur). Another talk by Mr. Prasad Gadkari on ‘COVID-19 
Stress and Coping’ was later premiered on the Institute’s 
YouTube Channel.
Before the event, the Student Sports and Games Society 
organized a Yoga Photo and Video Challenge open to all 
members, including an inter-hostel contest on the basis 
of difficulty of the asanas presented. The event was widely 
promoted on the Society’s and the Institute’s social media in the 
form of a video trailer. The challenge received about 39 entries 
from 28 participants.
Event highlights at https://youtu.be/sQ1ZKrb1cN4
Independence Day, 15 August 2020
IIT Jodhpur celebrated the 74th Independence Day with a 
grand celebration both in-person and on virtual platform 
with activities ranging from rich cultural performances 
and felicitation of Covid warriors to premier screening of 
a documentary film and a tree plantation drive. The event 
started with the hoisting of the national flag by the Director, 
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury. The flag hoisting was attended by 
Heads and Deans while maintaining social distancing, and was 
livestreamed to the entire IITJ fraternity on the online platform. 
After the flag hoisting, the Independence Day Address by 
the Director was delivered live from the Boardroom on the 
virtual platform. This was followed by wonderful cultural 
performances by students of IIT Jodhpur and children from 
Kendriya Vidyalaya IIT Jodhpur. The program also included 
the film premier of another story of self-reliance, sustainability, 
gender and ecological equity - the documentary film Under 
Another Sky. This film, directed by Maverick Prem and Dr. Vidya 
Sarveswaran (Department of HSS, IIT Jodhpur), is a story about 
the village of Piplantri that celebrates the birth of every girl child 
by planting 111 trees. The film is situated at the intersections 
of environment, gender, mining, education and atmanirbhar or 
self-reliance as its themes.
Watch Under Another Sky online at: https://youtu.be/
OQZdDmC_W5w.
The virtual program concluded with a Vote of Thanks by 
Chairman, Committee for Celebration of Commemorative Days 
(CCCD), Prof. Kamajit Rangra, and was immediately followed by
242
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Teacher’s Day, 05 September 2020
Teachers Day Celebrations 2020 at IIT Jodhpur were held 
online with a colorful gamut of performances by students and 
faculty members. The event was organized by students, and was 
coordinated by students, Sonal Jaiswal and Gaurav Sen.
The event started with an address by the Director, Prof. Santanu 
Chaudhury, where he read Rabindranath Tagore’s allegory on 
education, The Parrot’s Tale, the English translation of original 
Bengali short story Totaakaahini. This was followed by an 
address by the invited speaker of the day, veteran teacher, 
Professor C Venkatesan (Visiting Professor, Department of 
Mechanical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur) who shared his insightful 
experiences. The 2019-20 Teaching Excellence Awards, 
announced during the Institute’s Foundation Day Celebrations 
on 02 August this year, were presented to Dr. Deepak Fulwani 
(EE), Dr. Sandeep Yadav (EE), and Dr. Anand Mishra (CSE) by the 
Director.
The event also included cultural performances including 
speeches, dance, music, stories, skits and poems performed 
by students as well as faculty members to pay tribute to all
the teachers on the occasion. This included classical Odissi 
dance performance by Bikash Pattnayak, speech by Sanjana 
Gajbhiye, musical performances by Piyush Gangwar, Rittwika 
Pan, and Sagar Munjal. The program also included a showcase 
of paintings by Dr Dilpreet Kaur, a poetry recitation by Dr 
Prasenjit Thribuvan (The Teacher I want to be), classical 
Kathak performance by Dr. Rajlaxmi Chouhan, and musical 
performances by Dr. Shrutidhara Sarma and Dr. Prodyut Ranjan 
Chakraborty. A comedy-drama skit on online classes was 
performed by Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat (EBSB) Team.
Event highlights at https://youtu.be/sCFrTiqWllY
Engineer’s Day, 15 September 2020
Every year, the country celebrates September 15 as National 
Engineer’s Day to appreciate the contributions of Bharat Ratna 
M. Visvesvaraya. On the occasion of 2020 Engineer’s Day, the 
Institute organized an Invited Talk by Prof. D P Kothari, a 
renowned educationist and professor, a showcase of a few 
engineering design projects made by first-year students last 
year, and an essay writing competition.
a Tree Plantation Drive in the campus. The Evening Session 
of the program presented a Panel Discussion on Firsthand 
experience of Covid-19. The panelists shared insightful and
moving experiences of their experience of fighting Covid-19 as 
medical professionals, security personnel and as patients.
243
Annual Report 2020_21

Gandhi Jayanti, 02 October 2020
On the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti 2020 and 150 Years of Mahatama Celebrations, the Institute organized a 3-day Gandhi Film 
Festival on days leading up to October 02. On October 02, an invited talk by Raman Magsaysay Awardee, Dr. Sandeep Pandey, 
was organized along with some cultural performances by our students, a tree plantation drive and presentation by the Campus Green 
Committee.
Event highlights at https://youtu.be/Tw6yVUULMnA
244
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Constitution Day, 29 November 2020
Constitution Day, also known as Samvidhan Diwas, is celebrated on 26 November every year to commemorate the adoption of the 
Constitution of India. The celebrations of 2020 Constitution Day at IIT Jodhpur included Reading the Preamble of the Constitution 
of India, followed by an invited talk on constitutional principles by Advocate Shri V S Jayakumar (Chennai).
Republic Day, 26 January 2021
IIT Jodhpur celebrated the 72nd Republic Day on 26 January 
2020 with a grand celebration both in-person and on virtual 
platform with rich cultural performances from students, staff, 
faculty and campus children. The event started with the 
hoisting of the national flag by the Director, Prof. Santanu 
Chaudhury, followed by the National Anthem. The flag hoisting 
ceremony was attended by Heads and Deans while maintaining 
social distancing, and was livestreamed to the entire IITJ 
fraternity on the online platform. Sweets were distributed at the 
Institute’s main gate for all security personnel, housekeeping 
staff, and staff of the Primary Health Centre.
After the national anthem, the Republic Day Address by the 
Director was delivered live from the Boardroom on the virtual 
platform. Anmol Gupta, General Secretary, Board of Literary 
Affairs, also delivered a speech. On this occasion, the Institute 
also announced the 2020 Meritorious Staff Awards. These 
awards were presented by the Director to Mr. Gajraj Sharma, 
Mr. Laxman Singh, Mr. Shakti Ranjan Patra, and Mr. Anand 
Padegaonkar.
This was followed by cultural performances by students, 
faculty and staff members of IIT Jodhpur and children 
from Kendriya Vidyalaya IIT Jodhpur. The event also included
special performance by the Ek Bharat Shresth Bharat Team 
of the Institute. Before the event, the Office of Students had 
organized Drawing, Singing, Poetry Recitation, and Dance 
competitions for children on campus in different age groups, 
while the Student Activity Council had organized Debate, 
India Quiz, Article Writing, Art, Photography and Poster 
Design competitions for the students. The results of these 
competitions were also announced during the program by 
Dr. Preeti Tiwari.
Event Highlights at https://youtu.be/8UV17Uah0KQ
245
Annual Report 2020_21

International Day of Women & Girls in 
Science, 11 February 2021
According to UNESCO, at present less than 30% of researchers 
worldwide are women, and only about 30% of female students 
actually select STEM-related fields in higher education. In order 
to celebrate women and girls who are leading innovation in 
science and technology, and to promote their participation 
towards achieving gender equality, the UN General Assembly 
adopted a resolution in December 2015 and declared February 
11 as the International Day of Women and Girls in Science. 
IIT Jodhpur organized a talk by Dr. Suchetana Chakraborty, 
Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science & 
Engineering on the occasion where she shared her journey and 
research highlights.
IIT Jodhpur celebrated International Mother Language Day 
(अन्तर्राष्ट्रीय मातृभाषा दिवस) on 21 February 2021 with colorful 
cultural performances by the students, staff, and faculty 
members in online mode. The event began with an introduction 
to the historical significance of the celebration and the United 
Nation’s resolution on protection and preservation of mother 
languages across the world. The theme of the 2021 International 
Mother Language Day was ‘Fostering multilingualism for 
inclusion in education and society’ with focus on inclusion and 
leaving no one behind. Celebrating the linguistic diversity of our 
country where (as per 2011 census), there are more than 120 
languages and 270 mother tongues, IIT Jodhpur also created an 
overall Language Diversity Map of the IIT Jodhpur campus.
246
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

National Science Day, 28 February 2021
IIT Jodhpur celebrated National Science Day on 28 February 
2021 with a grand online celebration with a panel discussion 
and technical quiz contests for students. The event started 
with Panel Discussion on ‘Future of Science technology and 
innovation: impact on education, skill and work’ with eminent 
panelists including Mr. Alyappan Ramamurthi, Director of Digital 
Manufacturing, Asia Pacific at Siemens PLM Software, Prof. 
Sampat Raj Vadera, Head of Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur, 
and Mr. Anurag Choudhary, Head of Digital Learning Stockholm 
International School.
CCCD and SME Connect organized various events for the 
students, such as a science and technology quiz, pitch contest, 
sci-fi content creation and theory crafting.
International Women’s Day, 08 March 
2021
International Women’s Day Celebrations 2021 at IIT Jodhpur 
included an invited talk by Ms. Archana Kapoor, a Delhi-based 
filmmaker and community media specialist. The Photography 
Club of IIT Jodhpur, Shutterbugs, also organized an inter-college 
Photography Contest AINDRI - IN FRAMES on this occasion, 
whose results were announced during the event.
247
Annual Report 2020_21

Institute Events
Foundation Day
Institute’s 13th Foundation Day was celebrated on 2 August 2020. 
Dr. P. K. Mishra, Principal Secretary to the Hon’ble Prime Minister 
of India was the Guest Speaker, Shri N. K. Singh, Chairman, 15th 
Finance Commission, Government of India, was the Chief Guest, 
Shri Amit Khare, Secretary, Department of Higher Education, 
MHRD, Government of India was the Guest of Honour for the 
occasion. Dr. R. Chidambaram, Chairman, Board of Governors, 
IIT Jodhpur presided over the ceremony. The event started with 
a Welcome Address by Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT 
Jodhpur, followed by screening of the institute film “IIT Jodhpur: 
A Pearl in the Desert”
, and addressed by Shri Amit Khare and Shri 
N. K. Singh.
Thereafter, the Foundation Day Issue of “TechScape”
, the research 
bulletin of IIT Jodhpur, was released. This bulletin chronicles 
the ongoing research activities at the Institute, the campus
news and highlights, opinion pieces on recent developments 
in science, technology and education, besides featuring invited 
contributions from luminaries and alumni, in various fields. Also, 
it features the latest developments in research and pedagogy at 
IIT Jodhpur, views and commentaries on science and technology 
in the world at large and having connection with the Institute, 
in-focus features and research snippets, outreach, and campus 
highlights. It has articles for serious readers, understandable 
without specialized knowledge. The content is curated to be of 
general interest, in particular to the IIT Jodhpur community, and 
to all stakeholders at large.
Then Dr. P. K. Mishra delivered the Foundation Day Lecture on 
“Role of Technology in Shaping Education - The Future Vistas”
, 
followed by a bried Q&A session and Presidential address by Dr. R. 
Chidambaram.
248
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

6th Convocation
The 6th Convocation ceremony of the Institute was held 
on 6 December 2020 in an immersive 360-degree mixed-
reality environment streamed. Chief Guest for the ceremony 
was Professor Geoffrey E. Hinton, Turing Award Winner, 
popularly known as the ‘Godfather of Deep Learning’
, Emeritus 
Distinguished Professor, Department of Computer Science, 
University of Toronto, Canada. The ceremony was presided 
over by Dr. R. Chidambaram, Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT 
Jodhpur. Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur delivered 
the welcome address and presented the Institute Report. Degrees 
were awarded to the graduates of the Institute followed by oath 
taking by the graduates and presentation of prizes. Convocation
address was delivered by the Chief Guest Professor Geoffrey E. 
Hinton, followed by Chairman’s address by Dr. R. Chidambaram. 
The Institute awarded degrees in virtual mode via augmented 
reality (AR) to 117 B.Tech. students, 51 M.Sc. students, 33 M.Tech. 
students, and 31 Ph.D. students. Medals and certificates were 
awarded to the students through their computer-generated 3D 
Virtual Avatars. The students also took their graduation oath via 
their virtual avatars augmented in the Lecture Hall. Professor 
Hinton also inaugurated IIT Jodhpur’s newly-established School 
of AI & Data Science and wished success to the School which is 
set to play a major role in research and applications of AI & Data 
Science both in India and on the global stage.
249
Annual Report 2020_21

Facilities

Our Campus
IIT Jodhpur moved to its Permanent Campus during May-June 
2017, which is 25 kms away from the heart of Jodhpur city. 
Sprawling over three land parcels (Pocket A, Pocket B and 
Pocket C) on NH-62, Jodhpur-Nagaur Highway, IIT Jodhpur 
campus has ~ 842 acres of land for construction purposes. The 
Campus was awarded a 5-star rating by the Green Rating for 
integrated Habitat Assessment (GRIHA) council for its scrupulous 
planning. The ecological, cultural & social values associated with 
this site is protected by taking inspiration from the vernacular 
building layouts, design elements & treatments for the Campus 
Landscape & architecture. The key elements of the vision for the 
IIT Jodhpur Campus includes:
■
Sustainability & carbon Neutrality: Creating a smart, 
Intelligent Eco-Campus;
■
Campus as “Living Laboratory”: Demonstrating futuristic 
Technologies;
■
Respect for the Jodhpur’s desert ecology & Local 
architectural heritage;
■
Quality living & learning environment based on cross- 
disciplinary interactions; and
■
Creation of a unique identity for the prestigious IITs.
The planning of the Campus aims to reach Net-zero Energy, 
Water & Waste, making the Campus self-sustainable. The other 
salient features of the Permanent Campus are:
(1) Walk to work concept – the campus is pedestrian oriented 
and bicycle dominant;
(2) Learning facilitated anywhere, anytime with wireless ICT 
backbone (including Multi-media enabled learning spaces 
with flexible, shared public spaces and hybrid classrooms);
(3) Smart infrastructure with GRIHA 4/5 star compliant 
buildings and GRIHA LD benchmark campus (incorporating 
centralized chiller plant for air conditioning, a utility tunnel 
housing all the MEP services, dense desert settlement
morphology, low height buildings (up to a maximum of 
3 storeys) built with low embodied energy materials, and 
improved local and traditional methods);
(4) Plantation with native species, soil stabilization, protection 
from dusty wind to arrest erosion, desertification, and 
building-up soil moisture over time;
(5) Rain water harvesting, and water reduction and sewage 
recycling, together greening the site over time; and
(6) Segregated wastes and customized recycling.
Faculty and Staff Members are residing on campus. Total 132 
Type B Houses and 84 Type C houses have been constructed 
along with 12 new hostel buildings. The salient feature of 
these hostels is Single Occupancy Air Conditioned Room 
accommodation in all hostel buildings. Two dedicated dining 
hall buildings catering to the needs of students and other 
residents with a mess and a canteen in each, that serves 
hygienic and nutritious food. Essential services and amenities 
have been established to facilitate residents in their day-
to-day needs. There is a Primary Health Center (PHC) being 
managed by M/s. Goyal Hospital & Research Centre, Jodhpur, 
on contract. Its activities are supervised by the Medical Users’ 
Services Committee in consultation with the Medical Officer of 
IIT Jodhpur. Basic services (like the groceries, dining and food 
court, bank, stationery, laundry, beauty parlor and salon) are 
operational in the Community Center towards southern side of 
the Campus. Kendriya Vidyalaya is also functional in the campus 
which is housed in Pocket B of IIT Jodhpur campus. There is a 
dedicated bus service for commuting from the Campus to and 
from the city of Jodhpur.
The photographs shown below give a glimpse of the campus of 
IIT Jodhpur -
251
Annual Report 2020_21

Birds Eye View – IIT Jodhpur Campus
Hostel Block
Library Building: The Learning Hub
Utility Tunnel - MEP services
Housing Society
252
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

The following are some facilities that are available in Permanent 
Campus of IIT Jodhpur:
(a) ATM & Bank: The State Bank of India and the Canara Bank, 
IIT Jodhpur Branch and their ATMs are housed in the 
Community Centre Building, Lecture Hall Building & Main 
Administration Building, enabling the entire IIT Jodhpur 
fraternity ease of transactions.
(b) Dining Hall: The two Dining Hall Buildings has a Mess and 
a Restaurant in each that caters to the need of all students 
and employees. They provide hygienic food, fresh juices 
and various other snacks. The mess offers good quality 
food, regularly monitored by the Wardens for hygiene and 
nutritional values, and provided at affordable cost.
(c) Gymnasium: All students hostels have well-equipped 
gymnasium for students.
(d) Entertainment Room: Every hostel consists of recreation 
facilities (like TV Rooms, where students can enjoy matches 
and watch movies) along with indoor games (like table 
tennis and caroms).
(e) Laundry Service: Students and residents are facilitated with 
a dedicated laundry service on campus.
(f) Shopping Center: Various shops catering to the primary 
needs of students and residents, like grocery, dairy 
products, stationery, grooming services; All are housed in 
the Community Center Building.
(g) Transport Services: The Institute has a bus service running 
between the Permanent Campus and Jodhpur City at 
regular intervals, exclusively for the Students of the 
Institute.
(h) Medical Services: The Primary Health Center operated by 
M/s. Goyal Hospital & Research Center Pvt. Ltd., Jodhpur, 
on contract, provides routine health services to students 
and residents of the Campus. Besides this fully functional, 
round-the-clock, Primary Health Center in the campus, 
IIT Jodhpur avails services from the All India Institute of 
Medical Sciences and the associated Hospitals of the S. 
N. Medical College and some specialized hospitals. The 
Institute has agreements with a few prominent hospitals 
for priority treatment to its employees and students. These 
include: Goyal Hospital and Research Center, Medi Pulse 
Hospital, Vasan Eye Care Hospital, Vasundhra Hospital and 
other hospitals.
(i)	
Food Caravan: To cater to the needs of the students, Food 
Caravans are set up inside the campus.
For its copybook-style Master Plan, the Master Plan of 
IIT Jodhpur’s Permanent Campus has been awarded 5 
Star Rating by the Green Rating for Integrated Habitat 
Assessment (GRIHA) Council under GRIHA LD V1 category 
on 11 December 2018. The campus design of IIT Jodhpur 
visualizes all parts of all zones as interdependent, integral 
network, like the metabolism of a living organism, 
integrating social, economic and environmental 
sustainability to become a near-zero emission campus. 
Unlike a campus where buildings are spread out, increasing 
infrastructure and water consumption and creating heat 
islands, this campus uses a series of compact urban clusters 
typical of desert settlements. The campus is designed to be 
a flexible plug and play system by using a series of service 
tunnels, trenches and serviceable shafts that allow easy 
maintenance and upgrading of all wired and piped services 
without breaking open a wall, slab or road.
The Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur spreads across 852 
acres of land located ~25 km away from the center of the city 
of Jodhpur on National Highway 62 towards Nagaur, N-NE 
from the center of Jodhpur. It has 3 parcels of land. Presently 
constructions exist in Pockets A and B. The First Phase of 
Construction is complete while second phase is on the verge 
of completion. Buildings that are being used for its academic, 
research and administrative activities are:
1.	
Main Building, housing the administrative offices of the 
Institute;
2.	
The Learning Hub, housing the Library of the Institute
3.	
Lecture Hall Building with 8 class rooms of 60 seating 
capacity, 02 class room of 120 seating capacity and 
a 325-seater and 650-seater classroom each. All the 
classrooms are air conditioned, equipped with modern 
learning facilities like the Internet and audio-visual facilities;
4.	
The Basic Laboratories are established in one building;
Facilities on Campus
Academic & Research Facilities
253
Annual Report 2020_21

5.	
Department of Computer Science & Engineering (CSE) 
Building houses the Departments of CSE, Mathematics, 
and Humanities & Social Sciences. Also, the laboratories 
of Computer Science & Engineering are established in this 
building;
6.	
Chemistry Building housing the Department of Chemistry;
7.	
Electrical Building housing the Department of Electrical 
Engineering ;
8.	
Mechanical Building housing the Department of 
Mechanical Engineering ;
9.	
Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) Centre is established 
in a part of Primary Health Centre building;
10. Kendriya Vidyalaya runs is the First Building of IIT Jodhpur in 
Pocket B. ;
11. Physics Building housing the Department of Physics;
12. Metallurgical and Materials Building housing the 
Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering and 
Department of Chemical Engineering;
13. Bioscience & Bioengineering building housing the 
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering;
14. Incubation & Innovation Centre Building housing the 
Technology Innovation and Startup Centre for nurturing 
innovation and entrepreneurship in various domains;
15. Semi-Permanent Building for Animal House and School of 
Management & Entrepreneurship;
The other buildings which are under construction are:
(1) School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science;
(2) Central Instrumentation facility Building;
(3) Workshop Building which also houses Department of Civil 
and Infrastructure Engineering;
(4) Berms: Eastern (23 nos.) and Western (28 nos.) - Each 
berm comprise of 5 bays and provides ample of space 
for housing Laboratories for the Departments of Civil & 
Infrastructure Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Research 
Labs on Inter Disciplinary Research, Gymkhana, commercial 
establishments etc;
The photographs in the following pages provide a glimpse of 
the Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur.
Aerial view of the IIT Jodhpur Campus
254
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

UG Workshop Building
Physics Building
255
Annual Report 2020_21

Metallurgy and Material Engineering Building
Type C: Staff Housing
256
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Park Area – Type C Housing
Hostel Building
257
Annual Report 2020_21

Student Hostels
Jodhpur Club – For Faculty and Staff
258
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Utility Tunnel - Entrance Ramp
New Dining Hall Building
259
Annual Report 2020_21

Primary Health Centre
Berms
260
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Lecture Hall Complex
Type - B Housing
261
Annual Report 2020_21

Computer Centre
The Institute has a modern Computer Center to cater the 
computation and network requirements of the institute. The 
Computer Center is powered by a 10 G backbone. Presently the 
institute’s internet requirements are met by 4 Gbps Internet 
lease line out of which 3 Gbps ILL (2 Gbps from PowerGrid and 
1 Gbps from BSNL) have been added in 2020-21. The second 
phase of the network has been established by the Computer 
Center in 2020-2021. 802.11/b/g/n Wi-Fi service is enabled in the 
academic and hostel areas. A new Wireless Controller has been 
added to the appliances of the Computer Center in the year 
2020-2021. Computer Center also upgraded its network security 
appliance by adding a new UTM from Fortinet. It can provide 
seamless protection from any cyber threats. It provides secure 
VPN connectivity to IIT Jodhpur fraternities while they are not 
inside the campus. Computer Center is the nucleus of major 
computing activities for students, staff members and faculty 
members. The Computer Center of IIT Jodhpur is the proud host 
of the first DGX A100 AI Supercomputer of India. Two DGX A100 
AI Supercomputers are added in the academic year 2020-2021. 
The center established a new data center with a precision cooling 
system which hosts several computing servers, mini HPCs 
and mentioned two NVIDIA DGX A100 AI servers. Six license
servers of various operating systems from Windows and GNU/
Linux family are used to hosting various licensed software like 
MatLab, Mathematica, Cadence, Mentor Graphic, Ansys, PSCAD, 
Solidworks and many more from different departments. Jira 
Service Desk based ticketing system has been introduced during 
2020-21 for better support management.
NVIDIA DGX A100 Supercomputer
New Data Center (Established: 2020)
262
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Facilities
The Computer Center provides facilities of internet, email, IP telephone, cloud storage, WiFi, computing, VPN, LDAP, license server, 
online classrooms (such as moodle), FTP, and on premise web hosting to IIT Jodhpur fraternities. Computer Center also provides SSL 
certificates for all the iitj.ac.in domains and subdomains.
Resources
The Institute has several key resources at the 
Computer Center which includes softwares, 
hardwares, operating systems and laboratories 
with modern computers. At present two computer 
laboratories, one with 80 terminals and another with 
60 terminals are operated by the Computer Center. 
Computer Center has licenses of Microsoft Windows 
Operating Systems, Microsoft Office, RHEL, RHVM and 
Matlab. Details of the resources are provided below.
Hardware Infrastructure
The Computer Center has the following hardware infrastructure 
to provide several facilities and services inside the campus.
■
2 NVIDIA DGX A100 AI Supercomputer
■
NAS storage with 250 TB usable space
■
SAN storage with 30 TB usable space
■
Cisco WebEx room 70 duals currently installed at the Board 
Room
■
WebEx room 55 single currently installed at CDC Room
■
WebEx board 85 and Room Kit Pro Precision 60 currently 
available at LHB
■
Cluster of 11 Servers consisting of 3 Cisco, 4 Dell and 4 
Fujitsu Servers
■
Fortinet UTM and FortiAnalyzer
■
Cisco Communication System which includes CUCM, Voice 
Gateway and CMS in HA for IP Phones
■
IP Phone (330 phone installed till date)
■
Network equipment of Cisco consisting of (468 no. installed 
till date) WiFi AP with License, L2 (310 installed unit) and L3 
(25 installed units) Switches, 2 Core Switches, and 2 Wireless 
Controllers in HA.
Software Licenses
■
Red Hat Enterprise Linux
■
Standard License: 26 Licenses
■
HPC: 56 Licenses
■
RHVM: 40 Licenses
■
Microsoft Windows
■
Server 2012, 2016, 2019: 5 Licenses
■
Desktop Education Academic Enterprise: 100 Licenses
■
MS SQL Server: 2 Licenses
■
MS Project suit: 10 Licenses
■
Google
■
Google Workspace for Education: Unlimited
■
Google Workspace Education Plus: 200 Faculty Licenses and 
2000 Student Licenses
■
MATLAB License: Unlimited Institute Wide Access
■
WebEx
■
Meeting: 100 Licenses
■
Events: 5 Licenses
■
Device: 5 Licenses
263
Annual Report 2020_21

Centre for Advanced Scientific 
Equipment (CASE)
Center for Advanced Scientific Equipment (CASE) at the IIT 
Jodhpur has been established in the year 2018. The CASE has an 
endeavor to provide a state-of-the-art instrumentation facility 
in the multidisciplinary field of research to the undergraduate, 
graduate, Ph.D. students and the faculties of this esteemed 
institute as well as researcher from other institutes across the 
country.
Main Objectives of CASE facility:
■
To offer students and faculties of IITJ for smooth accessing 
high end instruments for their research need.
■
To provide smooth access of this facility to the external 
academic institutes as well as R & D organizations.
■
To offer hands-on training for students of IITJ through 
training programs/workshops on various sophisticated 
equipment for their professional growth.
At present a total number of 93 high end instruments are under 
CASE facility. Currently, the space allotted for CASE facility (Room 
No. 111 & 112, ground floor, Chemistry building) houses 22 
equipment including various sophisticated instruments such 
as 500 MHz NMR, Single Crystal XRD, Powder XRD, AFM, SEM, 
PPMS Dynacool, SQUID, Surface area analyzer, DSC, TGA etc.
Rest of the equipment under CASE facility are located at various 
departments of the institute. The overall day to day activities 
and the policy of the center is determined by a committee of 
faculty of this institute. The CASE committee appointed a faculty 
in charge for each of the instruments under CASE for smooth 
running and maintenance the equipment. Further, CASE facility at 
IIT Jodhpur imparts an opportunity towards its users for accessing 
various latest and advanced instruments persuasively via a 
transparent online booking portal. Thus, CASE facility contributes 
its users significantly to publish their research findings in 
internationally peer reviewed journals. IITJ CASE facility is also 
extended to external users from all national institutes and R & D 
organizations for accessing this facility on a minimal chargeable 
basis.
Differential Scanning Calorimeter
Simultaneous Thermal Analyzer
Powder X-ray diffractometer
264
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Single crystal X-ray diffractometer
Atomic Force Microscope
Scanning Electron Microscope and EDS
NMR Spectrometer (500 MHz)
UV-VIS spectrometers
FTIR
Fluorescence spectrometer
Surface area analyzer
Fuel cell
PPMS DynaCool
SQUID
Raman spectrometer
265
Annual Report 2020_21

Library
The Learning Hub, i.e., the library supports teaching and 
research activities of the Institute by facilitating acquisition, 
organization and dissemination of knowledge resources, and 
also by providing library & information services to IIT Jodhpur 
community. The Learning Hub of the Institute is situated 
prominently at the entrance of the academic area of the 
Institute, stands as the tallest structure on the campus scaling 
over 15m from the ground; keeps time for the entire campus 
with a 4-way clock at the clock tower, only the third in the city of 
Jodhpur. It functions under the guidance of Library Committee, 
which has representatives from all Departments, and Student 
Representatives.
The Learning Hub, Library Building in Permanent Campus, IIT 
Jodhpur
The Library has a rich and growing collection of 14,000 volumes 
of books and e-books approximately, which include textbooks, 
and books of general and reference nature. A wide range of 
scholarly journals, databases and research support tools are also 
subscribed from various sources for the academic and research 
purposes of the Institute.
Services & Facilities
The following services and facilities are being provided by the 
Library to its registered users:
1.	
Member & Circulation Services,
2.	
Orientation & User Education,
3.	
Borrowing Facility,
4.	
Reference & Information Service,
5.	
Course Reserves,
6.	
Current Awareness Service,
7.	
Inter Library Loan & Document Supply, and
8.	
Digital Library Facility & Services.
The library services are automated through Biometric enabled 
RFID technology using smart library solution for an effective 
management of the library and providing enhanced services like, 
self-check-out, self-check-in (book drop), security of materials, 
inventory management and finding misplaced items, stock 
verification, visitor counter, Smart Card issuance, etc.
Digital resources are accessible through the Library website, 
which is a comprehensive site maintained by Library. These 
include the Library subscribed resources, online catalogue, 
lists of useful resources accessible in the open domain like the 
open access journals, books, repositories, video lectures, open 
courseware. These resources are continuously updated.
A resource guide portal has also been developed and maintained 
by Library, wherein, resources i.e., books available in Library, 
subscribed journals, resources accessible in open domain are 
listed and linked, course-wise.
Collection
266
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl. No. Description Statistics
1. Print Books added Total 455
a. Number of titles added 154
b. Number of volumes added 455
2. eBooks added
a. Number of titles & volumes added 419
2. Number of Scholarly Resources subscribed (For CY 2019) Total 38
a. Fulltext resources 24
b. Archive of fulltext journals 3
c. Research databases 6
d. Research support tools 5
3. Document Supply & Inter Library Loan service requested fulfilled Total 61
a. Document supply of articles & research papers 60
b. Books arranged on Inter Library Loans 1
4. Circulation Transactions Total 3,937
a. Number of book check-outs 1,566
b. Number of book check-ins 1,799
c. Number of book renewals 525
d. Number of book recalls 47
RFID Gate & Drop-Box
Stacks & General Section
The vital statistics of Library for FY 2020-21, are as follow:
The Library is a core member of the eShodhSindhu: Consortium for Higher Education Electronic Resources, operated by INFLIBNET 
Center, Gandhinagar, through which subscriptions to major resources are fulfilled. Besides, the Library is a member of DEveloping 
Libraries NETwork (DELNET), New Delhi through which the Library meets its Inter Library Loan requirements.
Library subscribes to Plagiarism Detection Tool and Remote Access Tool for its users. Orientation sessions and Library Instruction 
sessions for Students are conducted by the Library Staff Members during registration of new students and on demand.
267
Annual Report 2020_21

OBC Cell
An OBC Cell for ensuring the proper utilization and adopting of 
reservation policies and guidelines issued by the Government 
of India is functional at IIT Jodhpur. The Cell deals with matters 
related to grievances received from OBC employees and students
in the Institute. The Cell acts as a communicator between the 
Institute and the Ministry of Human Research and Development 
in matters related to OBC students and employees in the Institute.
268
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

SC-ST Cell
The Institute is sensitive about any kind of discrimination 
against Students and Employees of SC and ST Categories. 
Therefore, an SC and ST Helpdesk for ensuring the proper 
utilization and adaptation of reservation policies and guidelines 
issued by the Government of India, is functional at IIT Jodhpur. 
The Institute ensures that Faculty Members, Staff Members 
and Students desist from any act of discrimination of any kind 
against Students and employees belonging to these categories.
The Helpdesk deals with matters related to grievances received 
from SC and ST employees and students in the Institute. The 
Helpdesk acts as a communicator between the Institute and the 
Ministry of Education in matters related to SC and ST students 
and employees in the Institute.”
269
Annual Report 2020_21

Primary Health Centre
IIT Jodhpur provides round the clock health care facilities to 
Students, Faculty and Staff Members of the Institute, at its 
Permanent Campus. This fully equipped and self-sufficient facility 
is run by M/s. Goyal Hospital & Research Center Private Limited, 
Jodhpur, on contract. Presently, the following facilities are 
available at the Primary Health Center (PHC).
1.	
Qualified Medical Doctors,
2.	
Regular Visits of Specialist Doctors,
3.	
Paramedical Staff,
4.	
Diagnostics Laboratory
5.	
Physiotherapy Unit,
7.	
24 Hours Emergency Room, and
Besides this, IIT Jodhpur is also availing facilities available at the 
All India Institute of Medical Sciences, S. N. Medical College and 
some specialized hospitals. The Institute has agreements with a
few prominent hospitals for priority treatment to its employees 
and students. These include: Goyal Hospital and Research Center, 
Medi Pulse Hospital, Vasundhara Hospital, and ASG Eye Hospital.
The Health Center coordinates and supervises the treatment of 
students, employees, and their dependents during hospitalization 
in other hospitals that are empaneled by the Institute, to provide 
treatment. On request, the Health Center extends its health care 
services to Institute visitors during their stay on campus. Under 
emergency circumstances medical services are also extended 
to the non-IIT Jodhpur community residents in the residential 
campus. Details like patient records, medicine procurement/
disbursement, assets, equipment of the Health Center are all 
computerized. Visits of Specialist Doctors are scheduled at the 
Primary Health Centre on weekends i.e., on Saturday and Sunday.
Primary Health Centre on Campus
Staff at the Primary Health Centre
270
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sports Facility – Indoor (Aakash Complex) and Outdoor Stadiums/Courts
Sports Facilities
A separate Sports Zone is developed to provide excellent 
Sports Facilities to both the students as well as Faculty and Staff 
Members. The playing facilities presently developed are:
(1) Cricket Ground with separate practice pitches;
(2) Foot Ball Ground;
(3) Hockey Ground;
(4) Synthetic Basket Ball Courts;
(5) Synthetic Lawn Tennis Courts; and
(6) Synthetic Athletic Track.
(7) Volleyball Ground;
(8) Kabaddi Ground; and
The Indoor Stadium (Aakash Complex) with facilities such as 
Badminton Courts, Table Tennis, Squash and Gymnasium is 
under construction.
271
Annual Report 2020_21

Lawn Tennis Court
Basket Ball Courts
Aerial view of the Sports Grounds at IIT Jodhpur
Cricket Practice Pitch
272
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Student 
Activities

Student Council
This year 24th senate meeting has approved in principle the 
framework of a new structure for student activities and to frame 
its Constitution and the broad scope of activities. The final 
constitution of Student Activity Council (SAC) and Academic 
and Co-Curricular Activity Council (ACAC) was formed after the 
due approval. The constitution is in line with ordinance and 
amendment clauses and participation of PWD students.
As per the Constitution of SAC and ACAC, the President of the 
various Boards under SAC and ACAC has been appointed to 
organize the student activities in a smooth manner over offline 
and online platforms.
Student Activity Council (SAC)
1.	
Board of Art & Culture
2.	
Board of Literary Affairs
3.	
Board of Student Sports
4.	
Board of Student Welfare
5.	
Board of Hostel Affairs
Academic and Co-Curricular Activity Council (ACAC)
1.	
Board of Academic Interactions
2.	
Board of Co-curricular affairs
3.	
Board of Departmental Society
4.	
Board of Innovation and Entrepreneurship
5.	
Board of Career Development
6.	
Society for Alumni Affairs
The students’ societies have 
organized the following 
events.
1. Designing 
Workhop
During the Academic Year 
2020-21, the Logo Designing 
Workshop, 3 D Designing 
Workshop and Digital Collage 
Workshop was organized 
by the core members of the 
Student Design and Creativity 
Society through online 
mode wherein students got 
exposure to the designing.
Student Fests & Events
274
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Dates Purpose
7 January 2021 Introduction to Camera Technology and Types Introductory session
8 to 14 January 2021 “Complete Your Way” Challenge
17 to 23 January 2021 Theme-Based Art Competition
24 February to 3 March 2021 Sketching Week
2. Dramatics
The following sessions were conducted by the Drama Club 
during an introductory session to the Drama Club.
1)	
Theatre (Stageplay) basics with National Theatre UK 
Frankenstein screening: 2 sessions
2)	
Nukkad (Street play) basics: 2 sessions
3)	
Facial expressions, voice modulation and control, body 
movements: 3 sessions
4)	
Improve acting: 3 sessions
5)	
Role-playing and character background: 1 session
6)	
Monologue basics - 1 session
7)	
Monologue tasks for first-year students
8)	
Group acting tasks for first-year students
3. Fresher’s Dance Competition
Two days’ workshop on Dance was conducted by the core 
members of the Student Dance Society through online mode. 
The Fresher’s Dance Competition was enjoyed by all students.
4. Shutterbugs
The Photography Club of IIT Jodhpur, Shutterbugs, had 
organized an Event Poster Competition on the Republic 
Day 2021, Colour Correction Activity and an inter-college 
Photography Contest AINDRI - IN FRAMES on International 
Women’s Day 2021.
Introductory sessions, basics photography and mobile 
photography tutorials have been conducted online by the 
Shutterbugs.
5. Fine Arts & Crafts
The below-mentioned workshops were organized by the Fine 
Arts and Crafts Society
275
Annual Report 2020_21

6. Music
The Music Club of IIT Jodhpur had organized a Music and Video Production workshop on Art of Storytelling using Music 
through online mode on 20 February 2021 with the collaboration of Frame X.
276
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

7. Ek Bharat Shresth Bharat
EBSB is a program to enhance interaction & promote mutual 
understanding between people of different states/UTs through 
the concept of state/UT pairing. Under the EBSB scheme 
proposed by MHRD, Govt. of India different activities have been 
conducted by the EBSB IIT Jodhpur.
Webinar on Dehing patkai was organised by EBSB, IITJ on 29 
May 2020. The lifestyle of the Dehing patkai including the 
lifestyle of the forest people of Assam was shared.
Webinar on the language workshop was organised by EBSB, 
IITJ on November 29, 2020. Prof. Shakuntala Mahanta was the 
speaker of the Webinar.
EBSB club of IIT Jodhpur also hosted a webinar on the “Role of 
youth in the development of the nation” by Professor Vivek Vijay, 
IIT Jodhpur on 11 September 2020.
EBSB Club of IIT Guwahati in coordination with IIT Jodhpur 
hosted a webinar on the Sattriya dance by Artist Dr Anwesha 
Mahanta on Monday, 31 August 2020 through Google Meet. Dr. 
Mahanta is an impanelled artist with Indian Council for Cultural 
Relations (ICCR) and is an A-Grade artist of Prasar Bharati.
Webinar on “Enhancing Psychological Wellbeing and Resilience” 
was hosted by EBSB IITJ on 16 Jan 2021. The speaker of 
the webinar was Mr. Prasad Gadkari. In this webinar, the 
information on mental wellbeing was shared by Mr. Gadkari.
The online orientation session was conducted by the EBSB club, 
IITJ on 12 February 2021 which was shared with IIT Guwahati.
EBSB club of IIT Jodhpur has hosted a webinar by Professor Vivek 
Vijay on 26 February 2021. The title of the webinar was “Mental 
Balance- A key to happiness.”
277
Annual Report 2020_21

8. Rotaract Club
Rotaract Club of IIT Jodhpur
District ID: 3053
Rotaract club, IIT Jodhpur has organised the following 
webinars.
a)	
Webinar on “आत्म निर्भर आप-Security of Investments in tough 
times of COVID-19”
b)	
Webinar on “Building Resilience in the face of Danger” with 
Twin Club participation Rotaract Club of GCET College (RID 
3060)
c)	
Webinar on “Power of Rotaract”
Rotaract Club, IIT Jodhpur has done two Project 
Collaborations with other Rotaract Club.
a)	
Behind the White Coat in collaboration with Rotaract Club 
of Global youth (RID 3131)
b)	
EARTH BALL project in collaboration with Rotaract Club of 
Latur Midtown (RID 3132)
Donation Drives have been organised by Rotaract Club, IIT 
Jodhpur.
■
Mask Distribution Drive in IIT Jodhpur campus
■
Collection and Donation Drive of Clothes in IIT Jodhpur 
campus
■
Blood Donation Camp in IIT Jodhpur campus
Mask Distribution Drive
278
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Collection and Donation of Clothes
Student Accolades
During the Financial Year 2020-21, students of the Institute received their share of accolades.
279
Annual Report 2020_21

9. UG Orientation 2020
The Orientation programme is an opportunity to introduce 
the new students to life at the Institute and facilitate a 
smooth transition to the new life. The objective is to help both 
undergraduate students and their parents adjust to the campus 
through a series of activities and sessions organized as part of 
the programme. During Orientation program 2020 from 20th 
to 28th November 2020, a total 17 nos. of guest speakers were 
invited through online mode.
10. Adequate measures to prevent and 
control the spread of COVID-19
IIT Jodhpur has taken adequate measures to prevent and control 
the spread of COVID-19 on campus, like, random RT-PCR testing 
on weekly/twice/ thrice in a week, Vaccination, Slot system in 
Dining Hall, sanitization of Hostel rooms and common area, 
separation of dining tables by acrylic sheets, creation of isolation 
centres etc.
280
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

281
Annual Report 2020_21

Student Wellbeing
The Student Wellbeing Committee (SWC) is an integral part of 
IIT Jodhpur since 2008. It takes care of the mental wellbeing 
and overall happiness factor of all the students of IIT Jodhpur. 
Every year, it strives to ensure that every student gets to know 
the Institute in intricate details and to help absorb all the 
opportunities that the Institute creates. It works towards making 
the transition of new Students from their homes to the Institute 
a memorable one. The objective of the Student Wellbeing 
Committee is to provide friendly support to the new students 
for their well-being during their stay on the campus and for their 
personal & professional developments. In essence, the Student 
Wellbeing Committee promotes the development of students 
along three aspects, namely:
(1) Academic: It provides information about different academic 
programs of the Institute, and suggests efficient time 
management and study skills,
(2) Extra-Curricular: It strives to develop talents in students, 
and encourages them to discover their extra-curricular 
interests/hobbies. Also, it provides an interface with the 
Institute activities, and provides a platform for interaction 
with the Institute; and
(3) Personal: It provides a cushion against homesickness, and 
assists in adjusting to the new environment (including 
concerns and difficulties arising during their stay at the 
Institute) by providing personalised guidance. Also, it 
provides psycho-education and confidential referral 
services to students.
The Student Wellbeing Committee is headed by a Faculty 
Member, as the Chairperson of the Student Counseling 
Service Committee, and ably supported by Faculty 
Members, Staff Members and senior students. A full-
time Student Counselor plays the role of growth coach, 
well-being moderator and psychological counselor. The
Counsellor and a wellbeing moderator are available 24 x 7 
at the disposal of students. Besides, the Student Wellbeing 
Committee strives to:
(1) Maintain a ragging-free campus;
(2) Organize Orientation Program for new students to acquaint 
them with the Institute;
(3) Organize lectures and trainings on: (a) Stress management, 
(b) Time management, (c) Health care and hygiene, 
(d) Substance Abuse, (e) Relationships, (f) Cope with 
homesickness, (g) Addiction and others, and (h) 
motivational lectures by eminent speakers;
(4) Address academic issues of students, e.g., poor academic 
performance, basic IT skills and language skills of students 
from non-English background; and
(5) Organize events for encouraging interaction among 
students of different years, and Staff and Faculty Members.
The details of the events organized by SWC are also 
mentioned on the website: http://swc.iitj.ac.in/. The 
following activities were conducted in the past year:
1. Fresher’s Orientation (including 
campus tour, Counsellor’s talk, 
Alumni interaction and virtual talent 
show)
20th – 28th Nov 2020
The Orientation Week is organized by the SWC team with 
the agenda of developing a perception of a “New Home 
away from home” among new students. The week plays 
a prominent role in making the students aware about 
the institute, the facilities institute offers as well as the
282
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

first formal cum informal interactive session among new 
students so that they could become more comfortable with 
the new environment they have stepped into. It started 
with a Formal Session by Student Wellbeing Committee 
team UG describing the Team Members, Team Structure, 
Hierarchy, Functioning of Team, whom to approach, etc. 
Next day was a virtual Campus Tour and Campus activities 
tour. Next couple of days included Session with Mr. Arvind 
Bhatt (Importance and technique of Goal Setting and Time 
Management), Your Dost (Introduction of YourDost app), 
Student Counsellor and Wellbeing Moderator (Importance 
of Mental health, counseling facilities at campus, concept of 
socially connected world, digital fasting,etc.). The following 
days were more fun for students as there were sessions with 
IITJ Alumnus (Kirtivardhan Singh Rathor (IITJ 2012-16) on 
College life, opportunities, how to study while enjoying, 
achieving your goals, working on your hobbies, etc. and 
virtual talent show and other informal sessions.
2. Freshanza 2020
25th - 30th December 2020
This was a fun-filled event included Freshenza Kick off, 
Mr./Ms. Freshers Events (Group discussion, tasks, etc), 
informal events, Group task Show Drama Showcase, Dance 
Showcase, Music Showcase and declaration of Mr. and Ms. 
Freshers.
3. Virtual Progressive Muscle 
Relaxation by the Counsellor (every 
week)
Progressive Muscular Relaxation (PMR) is a medically 
proven technique to soothe and calm an individual’s 
nerves. Well-known for its ease, this user-friendly exercise 
can take care of anxiety and it’s resultant fall-outs. The 
relaxed state of mind and body, achieved through PMR 
learning, leaves it’s positive effect on students’ health, with 
better self-control and preparedness to face tensions in life. 
Most of those situations are when students become very 
tense, worry too much, anticipate bad outcomes such as 
exam tensions, anxiety/ headaches before viva/ interview, 
stage fright, speaking in front of class, strangers/ opposite 
gender and so forth. It helps in improving disturbed sleep, 
poor appetite/ digestion, fatigue, hypertension, ulcers and 
other problems having origins with mental anxiety and 
emotional disturbances. Learning Progressive Muscular 
Relaxation (PMR) helps in a positive step towards a healthy 
lifestyle.
4. Covid conquered: How to move 
forward - Interaction with the 
Counsellor
The students were given an opportunity to share their 
experiences, ask health related queries and receive inputs 
for better coping from Student Counselor and Team. It was 
conducted to provide extended psychological support for 
students who all went through difficult times with COVID.
5. In person - counselling sessions in 
campus (17th, 18th and 30th Nov 
2020)
This session was organized for those who are staying in 
hostels and many students are facing stress, isolation, and 
worries regarding their health and well-being. Through this 
the students could interact with the Student Counselor who 
took care of worries and negativity in these interactions.
6. World Mental Health Day (10th Oct 2020)
7. PG Orientation 2020 (02nd Sept 
2020)
It started with the introduction of the PG wellbeing team, 
Role and responsibility of the team members, role of 
student counsellor and well being moderator and the 
contact information and procedure of contact.
8. Basic Counselling Skills Workshop 
- Training by Student Counsellor to 
both UG and PG teams (19th Dec 
2020)
The main aim was to discuss basic Counselling Skills. 
Educate students of the Communication Skills (Do’s and 
Don’ts of Communication in Counselling) and Future Plan 
of the Year
9. Repeated virtual group sessions with 
new students
10. Cafe Connection - Every week on 
campus
The objective of this meeting is to break the stigma about 
mental health, to normalize the Counselling among the 
students. Students are hesitant to come to the health centre
283
Annual Report 2020_21

sometimes and this stops students from taking help from 
team Counselor therefore we started to provide a space and 
time (After their classes) for their convenience. 
11. Enhancing Psychological Well-being and Resilience - 
Webinar in EBSB by the counsellor (16th Jan 2021)
12. Covid - 19: Fighting the second 
Wave
For students who were COVID positive or in quarantine 
(Virtual group sessions and one to one sessions on 
17.04.2021, 22.04.2021, 24.04.2021, 01.05.2021, 03.05.2021, 
10.05.2021)
13. Gratitude Day celebration – 25th Feb 2021
14. Yearbook class of 2021
As it is said, it’s the little memories that last a lifetime 
and so to make this adieu indelible, we planned to make 
a YEARBOOK for passing out batches. This included 
uploading the photo, adding a line that aptly describes this 
voyage and the information will be updated on the website 
of SWC.
15. Airmeet by UG team
In an airmeet, there are many tables (breakout rooms) 
and anyone can join any table to have a conversation with 
the people already sitting on the table. This is to promote 
conversations and encourage students to talk about their 
problems / interests and their lives with their peers.
16. Fare Thee Well by UG team
17. Few webinars organized by YourDost
284
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Career Development Cell
The Career Development Cell (CDC) aspires to provide 
comprehensive career counseling to IIT Jodhpur students 
during their academic involvement and after graduation. CDC 
performs various individual and collective activities relating 
to the training and placement process planning, career 
development, counseling, competence/skill assessment, 
decision making. CDC fosters students’ abilities, competencies, 
and interests and assists them in developing professional skills, 
knowledge, and positive attitude to manage their career path. 
Due to the current pandemic situation worldwide, the entire 
placement process was conducted virtually. To date, more 
than 100+ companies participated in the Placement Season 
2020-2021. Some renowned companies that participated in 
the placements are Microsoft, Morgan Stanley, Oil India, Tata 
Consultancy Services, L&T Engineering, Maruti Suzuki, Amazon, 
Goldman Sachs, Accenture, ZS Associates, Nippon Steel, Adani 
Enterprise, CDAC, Sterlite Technologies, Ceremorphic, DE Shaw, 
and Gojek.
Key statistics from the season 2020-2021:
■
100+ companies participated in Internship and Placement.
■
Total no. of students placed-135 (B.Tech. – 105 Students, 
M.Tech.- 29 Students, M.Sc.- 1 student)
■
B.Tech. placement percentage - 83%
■
Average salary offered to the B.Tech. Students – 14.36 Lakhs
■
23 PPOs offered
Activities in the season 2020-2021:
■
Internship and placement planning
■
Individual/Group Career Counselling
■
Interaction Sessions with industry professionals
■
Effective Job Search Strategies
■
Soft Skills Training Sessions
■
Welcome/Introduction Sessions
■
Mock Interview Sessions
“Soft Skill Training Session” was organized on 28th August – 
30th August 2020 by Thinkers and Fillers. The said training was 
conducted for the final year students. The topics covered were: 
Resume Writing, Corporate Etiquettes, Group Discussions, and 
Mock Interviews. In addition, a “Welcome/Introduction Session” 
was organized by CDC student body on 5th June 2021 for 
the second and third year students to introduce them to CDC 
functioning and to discuss the internship/placement process.
285
Annual Report 2020_21

Sl.
No. Name of the Company Number of Students selected per Branch Total Number of
Students Placed
1 Accenture 1 2 3
2 Adobe 1 1
3 Apty 1 2 3
4 Arcelormittal Nippon Steel 1 1
5 Arcesium 1 1
6 Ceremorphic 1 1
8 Cognizant 1 1
10 EcomExpress 1 1
11 ET Media Labs 1 1
12 Exawizards 1 1 2
13 Future First 1 1
14 Goldman Sachs 1 1 1 3
15 Impact guru 1 2 1 4
16 L&T Engineering 1 2 3
17 IPL Electric Truck 2 3 5
18 L&T Infotech 5 5
19 Maq Software 3 3
20 Maruti Suzuki 2 2
21 MCZC 1 1
22 Microsoft 8 8
23 Morgan Stanley 1 1
24 Nebula 1 1
25 Nokia 2 5 7
26 Oil India 1 1
27 Optum 1 1
28 R System 1 1 2
29 Reliance Jio 4 4
30 Sigmoid analytics 1 1
31 Signalchip 2 2
32 Slice IT 1 1
33 SMS Datatech 2 2
34 Speedlabs 1 1
35 Sterlite Technologies 5 5
37 Technoforte 2 1 3
38 Tredence Analytics 1 1
39 Trueminds Software 1 1
40 Truminds 1 1
B.Tech. Placement for the year- 2020-2021
286
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl.
No. Name of the Company Number of Students selected per Branch Total Number of
Students Placed
41 Tuning Bill Software 1 2 3
42 Vedantu 1 2 3
43 Wipro 2 1 1 4
44 Yodlee 5 5
45 ZS Associates 1 1 2
Grand Total 50 29 26 105
Name of the Company Total number of students placed Total number
of students
placed
AI CSE CPS DCS TFE AMD BB MT
Adani Entreprise 1 1
Apty 1 1
CDAC 2 2 1 5
Impact Guru 1 2 1 1 5
Infosys 1 1 2
L&T Engineering 1 1
Nippon Steel 1 1 2
Spanidea 2 2 1 5
Sterlite Technologies 1 1
Tata Consultancy Services 1 1 2
Grand Total 9 7 2 3 3 2 2 1 29
B.Tech. Placement for the year- 2020-2021
M.Tech. Placement for the Year 2020 - 2021
287
Annual Report 2020_21

Alumni Relations
The Alumni of IIT Jodhpur have always brought pride to their 
Alma Mater by excelling in their respective professions as part 
of multinational companies, esteemed institutions of research, 
prominent institutions of higher education or rapidly growing 
entrepreneurial ventures. The Alumni Relations Committee 
(ARC) of the Institute envisions building a mutually beneficial
relationship with Alumni by purposeful engagement. The 
Committee shall enable and facilitate activities that (1) Benefit 
our Alumni (2) Foster mutual trust and (3) Promote professional 
and technical excellence. Last year, the ARC organized several 
events.
IITJ Alumni Featured 
in the 2020 - Forbes 
30 under 30 list - 
Media, Marketing & 
Advertising
On 2nd April 2020, Forbes announced 
its 30 under 30 Asia list for 2020. 
This list features 30 entrepreneurs, 
leaders and innovators in each of the 
10 different categories. This year, our 
Alumni, Lal Chand Bisu (Class of 2012, 
EE), Vinod Meena (Class of 2014, CSE) 
and Vikas Goyal (Class of 2014, CSE) 
have been featured in this list under 
the category “Media, marketing & 
advertising” for co-founding Kuku FM, 
which has re-envisioned traditional 
radio with new content. As always, our 
Alumni continue to make their Alma 
mater proud. More information on 
this recognition conferred upon our 
Alumni can be accessed here.
288
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

This Teacher’s Day, on 5th September 2020, the Alumni Relations 
Committee invited its Alumni to pen words of gratitude towards 
their teachers whose efforts helped them in shaping their 
career and achieving their dreams. The Alumni enthusiastically 
participated to make this Teacher’s Day special and penned 
down their thoughts about and experiences with their teachers.
Some Alumni also shared their journey and life lessons which 
they gained from their respective teachers. It was a pleasant 
surprise for the Faculty Members when the tokens of affection, 
respect and gratitude were shared with them. The ARC thanks 
all Alumni, who brought a smile to the faces of their teachers on 
this teachers day. Please click here to view the gallery.
Alumni celebrate their Teachers on the 
occasion of Teacher’s day
289
Annual Report 2020_21

‘Samanvay’ was organized on 28th of November 2020 as the 
final leg of the UG orientation program for the 2020 batch of 
UG students at IIT Jodhpur. The purpose was to help students 
to navigate the world after graduating from IITJ. The event was 
planned for the new students to understand how IITJ could 
aid in realizing their dreams and aspirations from those who 
have navigated this path before: our Alumni. Over 250 students
participated in the online event via WebEx. The students were 
enlightened about the annual activities conducted by the Office 
of International Relations and Outreach (IRO) by the Associate 
Dean, IRO, Dr. Kaushal Desai. The students were introduced to 
the Alumni web portal and the annual events organized by the 
Alumni Relations Committee by the Faculty Incharge (Alumni 
Relations), Dr. Shankar Manoharan.
Alumni as guiding beacons - Samanvay UG 
Orientation Program 2020
As part of Samanvay, an invited talk by Mr. Shobhit Srivastava 
(B.Tech., CSE, Class of 2012 and REYA awardee for 2020) on 
“Always finish the race” was organized. Ms. Madhumita Agrawal, 
Founder, IPexcel as well as young alumni achiever awardee, 
IIT Kharagpur discussed how an IIT helps shape one’s career. 
The event also saw a panel discussion on “Making the most 
of your time at IITJ” by IIT Jodhpur Alumni: Mr. Tanmay Sethi, 
B.Tech. (ME), Class of 2014, Cofounder, Nebulaa Innovations; 
Ms. Sonu Mehta, B.Tech. (CSE), Class of 2015, Research Software 
Development Engineer, Microsoft Research; Dr. Sundara Tejaswi 
Digumarti, B.Tech. (EE), Class of 2012, Postdoctoral Researcher,
University of Sydney; Mr. Jay Sheth, B.Tech. (EE), Class of 2018, 
Student, IIM Ahmedabad. The discussion was moderated by 
Dr. Kaushal Desai, Associate Dean, International Relations and 
Outreach, IIT Jodhpur. The panel addressed key questions on 
navigating through the various stages of life at IIT Jodhpur. 
Several Alumni also joined the event enthusiastically and 
interacted with the freshers. The freshers enjoyed the session 
and were motivated to hear from the Alumni. The program 
concluded with a vote of thanks proposed by Dr. Shankar 
Manoharan.
290
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

The IIT Jodhpur Annual Alumni Day 2021 was organized virtually 
on 6th of February 2021 at 7.00 pm. The event was organized 
by the Alumni relations committee in collaboration with the 
IIT Jodhpur Alumni association. The event was attended by 
IIT Jodhpur Alumni across the world and by the IIT Jodhpur 
community. The event began with a welcome address by Dr. 
Shankar Manoharan, the Faculty in Charge, Alumni Relations, 
IIT Jodhpur. Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director IIT Jodhpur 
addressed the Alumni on the vision for IIT Jodhpur and how 
Alumni can contribute to achieving the vision. Prof. Chaudhury 
also outlined the various interesting updates to the academic 
programs of the Institute. He underscored how IIT Jodhpur 
considers Alumni as one of the key stakeholders of the Institute 
by describing several measures taken by the Institute to 
onboard in various roles at IIT Jodhpur. Representatives from 
the IIT Jodhpur Alumni association Mr. Tanmay Sethi and Mr. 
Saurabh Pandey, highlighted a summary of events and the 
association’s plan for 2021.
This was followed by the main highlight of the evening, the 
Recognition of Excellence in Young Alumni Awards (REYA) 2021 
presentation ceremony. Dr. Heena Rathore (Class of 2016), 
Ph.D., in Information & Communication Technologies and Ms. 
Sonu Mehta (Class of 2015), B.Tech. in Computer Science & 
engineering were both declared the winners in the Academic & 
Research category by Prof. Chaudhury. A citation on the merit 
of the awardee, for each award was read out by Dr. Kaushal 
Desai, Associate Dean (International relations & outreach). 
Both awardees made acceptance speeches highlighting how 
IIT Jodhpur had helped them reach their current positions in 
their career. The event concluded with a formal vote of thanks 
proposed by Dr. Kshema Prakash, Member, Alumni Relations 
Committee. At the end of the formal event, breakout sessions 
were organized in five popular areas for Alumni to network and 
build connections among themselves and with students.
Annual Alumni Day 2021
291
Annual Report 2020_21

On 7th February 2021, the Alumni reconvened for a trip down 
the memory lane together. Success stories of several IIT Jodhpur 
Alumni were highlighted in a dedicated session. A virtual tour 
of the permanent campus was also organized. This was followed 
by a networking breakout session. The second day ended with 
a batch-wise interactive session, where Alumni could reconnect 
with their batchmates and rekindle the memories made at IIT 
Jodhpur.
She Inspires 2021 Campaign
The Alumni Relations Committee, IIT Jodhpur started this 
edition of the #SheInspires Campaign on 8th March 2021. As 
IITJ alumni continue to excel and make their mark in diverse 
fields, crushing obstacles and crossing milestones, this annual 
campaign aims to inspire the fresh talents with the goals set by 
the experienced seniors.
To celebrate the women achievers, the Alumni Relations 
Committee brought some success stories of the women in its 
Alumni community. The first edition features Ms. Krati Saxena 
(B.Tech., System Science, 2011-2015) who has willingly shared 
her journey to inspire others like her to take the path less 
travelled.
Digital ID Cards
The Institute issues digital ID cards to its Alumni enabling 
them to remain associated with the Institute lifelong. The 
authenticated user can avail the cards by accessing their profiles 
on the Alumni Relations Portal. The cards serve as proof that 
the holder is an Alumnus or Alumna of IIT Jodhpur. The Alumni 
Cards are assigned by the Office of Alumni Relations and are 
required for entry into the campus once the student leaves the 
Institute after graduation. An Alumni card-holder may avail the 
benefits such as free on-campus stay for the first three days, use 
of the Institute library and a guest login for the IITJ WiFi during 
the stay.
292
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Academic Program Number of Registered Students
Preparatory 47
Registered Students in 
IIT Jodhpur
IIT Jodhpur has, as on 31 March 2021, a total of 2564 students registered in various programs offered by the Institute. The table and 
chart below depict the program-wise break-up of the registered students in the Institute.
Preparatory | 2%
M.Tech. Executive | 10%
293
Annual Report 2020_21

SOURCES OF FUNDS Current Year Previous Year
CORPUS/CAPITAL FUND 10,65,21,47,175 10,61,22,01,857
DESIGNATED/EARMARKED/ENDOWMENT FUNDS 37,40,02,715
CURRENT LIABILITIES & PROVISIONS 3,02,84,72,433 2,35,45,67,394
TOTAL 14,05,46,22,323 12,96,67,69,251
APPLICATION OF FUNDS Current Year Previous Year
FIXED ASSETS 11,19,43,06,213 10,08,50,94,842
Tangible Assets 11,11,12,88,414 5,83,56,85,889
Intangible Assets 5,77,97,274 3,31,76,028
Capital Works-in-Progress 2,52,20,524 4,21,62,32,925
CURRENT ASSETS 2,42,06,31,222 1,96,02,70,724
LOANS, ADVANCES & DEPOSITS 43,96,84,889 92,14,03,685
MISCELLANEOUS EXPENDITURE NOT WRITTEN OFF -
TOTAL 14,05,46,22,323 12,96,67,69,251
Sl.
No. Particulars Recurring
(Object Head 31) Salary
(Object Head 36) Non-Recurring
(Object Head 35) Total
(i) Grant Received during
F.Y. 2020-21 94,93,78,049 56,65,00,000 52,00,000 1,51,40,78,049
(ii) EWS Grant Received during
F.Y. 2020-21 - - - -
Total Grant Received 94,93,78,049 56,65,00,000 52,00,000 1,51,40,78,049
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
Balance Sheet as on 31 March 2021
Amount in Rupees
FINANCIAL POSITION
294
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Notes

Notes

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
NH 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur 342 037
Phone: +91-291-280 1161 | publications@iitj.ac.in | 
Website: www.iitj.ac.in