SOURCE_URL: https://www.iitj.ac.in/physics/en/doctoral-program

The Ph.D. program of the Department is uniquely designed to train students with required abilities viz. deep technical knowledge, technical communication skills (both oral and written), understanding of intellectual property issues and general writing skills so as to enable them to effectively manage their professional requirement at respective work places. Department has a unique combination of young and experienced faculty having high research profile in the respective domains. Department provides opportunities to the student to pursue advanced research in a wide range of new and emerging research domains including the following: Advanced Multi-functional Materials and Devices Astrophysics Computational Condensed Matter Physics High Energy Particle Physics Materials for Energy Harvesting and Storage Materials & Technologies for Strategic Applications Molecular Devices Nanoscience & Nanotechnology Non-linear Optics Photonics Plasma Physics and Cold Plasma Technology Quantum Computing and Information Quantum Optics Soft Matter Physics The high level of research is enabled by a motivated group of expert faculty members supported by a large pool of high-end advanced research equipments and computational facilities. Some of the salient features of the Ph.D. program are as under: Opportunities to pursue multidisciplinary as well as transdisciplinary research Provision to have more than one supervisor from same or different subject streams Opportunities for participation in international collaborative projects Financial support to participate in International and National conferences Opportunity to use any laboratory facility of parent department as well as of any other department of the institute Access to equipment at Centre for Advanced Scientific Equipment (CASE) Access to Central Supercomputer for advanced computational work
Access to large number of software resources including MATLAB, Mathematica, ANSYS, HFSS, etc. Compulsory Audit Course in IP Landscaping 24x7 Access to large volume of Journals and other technical literature through Institute Knowledge Centre Compulsory course on Technical Communication Skills For queries regarding admission, please contact, Chairman, Department Admission Committee: Dr Satyajit Sahu (e-mail: satyajit@iitj.ac.in )
The Ph.D. program of the Department is uniquely designed to train students with required abilities viz. deep technical knowledge, technical communication skills (both oral and written), understanding of intellectual property issues and general writing skills so as to enable them to effectively manage their professional requirement at respective work places. Department has a unique combination of young and experienced faculty having high research profile in the respective domains. Department provides opportunities to the student to pursue advanced research in a wide range of new and emerging research domains including the following:
Advanced Multi-functional Materials and Devices
Computational Condensed Matter Physics
High Energy Particle Physics
Materials for Energy Harvesting and Storage
Materials & Technologies for Strategic Applications
Nanoscience & Nanotechnology
Plasma Physics and Cold Plasma Technology
Quantum Computing and Information
The high level of research is enabled by a motivated group of expert faculty members supported by a large pool of high-end advanced research equipments and computational facilities.
Some of the salient features of the Ph.D. program are as under:
Opportunities to pursue multidisciplinary as well as transdisciplinary research
Provision to have more than one supervisor from same or different subject streams
Opportunities for participation in international collaborative projects
Financial support to participate in International and National conferences
Opportunity to use any laboratory facility of parent department as well as of any other department of the institute
Access to equipment at Centre for Advanced Scientific Equipment (CASE)
Access to Central Supercomputer for advanced computational work
Access to large number of software resources including MATLAB, Mathematica, ANSYS, HFSS, etc.
Compulsory Audit Course in IP Landscaping
24x7 Access to large volume of Journals and other technical literature through Institute Knowledge Centre
Compulsory course on Technical Communication Skills
For queries regarding admission, please contact, Chairman, Department Admission Committee: Dr Satyajit Sahu (e-mail: satyajit@iitj.ac.in )
Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee
Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee
Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee
Institute Repository
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 27 Feb 2026 - 02:26 PM
Last Updated : 27 Feb 2026 - 02:26 PM
Last Updated : 27 Feb 2026 - 02:26 PM
###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!