SOURCE_PDF: 389589270afd_1701335358_Postgraduate_Diploma_in_Next_Generation_OMICS_Technologies_and_Applications.pdf

Admission to the Postgraduate Diploma in Next Generation OMICS Technologies and Applications
In the dynamic world of science and technology, OMICS has emerged as a groundbreaking discipline, 
providing a holistic view of living organisms at a molecular level. With the potential to reshape medicine, 
biotechnology, and agriculture, OMICS is at the forefront of cutting-edge research. However, the rapid 
advancements and complex nature of OMICS technologies present significant challenges.
To meet the growing demands and complexities of this field, IIT Jodhpur, in collaboration with industry 
partners, presents the Postgraduate Diploma in Next Generation OMICS Technologies and Applications. This 
comprehensive program is skill-based and designed to equip you with the knowledge and expertise necessary 
to thrive in this rapidly evolving OMICS domain. We offer three flexible programs: a six-month Basics 
Certificate Program I, a six-month advanced Certificate Program II, and a combined one-year PG diploma 
program.
By applying to this program, you will embark on a transformative journey, gaining proficiency in state-of-
the-art data analysis methods for OMICS, high-throughput sequencing technologies, bioinformatics, OMICS 
experiments, and precision medicine. You will be able to acquire hands-on experience in cutting-edge 
laboratories, working with industry-standard equipment and software. Our distinguished faculty members, 
comprising leading experts from academia and industry, ensure you receive the highest quality of training 
and remain at the forefront of OMICS advancements.
Enroll in the Postgraduate Diploma in Next Generation OMICS Technologies and Applications at IIT Jodhpur 
today and embark on an exciting journey towards a fulfilling and impactful career.
(i) The applicant must have a bachelor’s degree in engineering or science or medicine (minimum 4-year 
program) or a master’s degree in bioengineering or bioscience or in a related ﬁeld.
(ii) A minimum of 60% marks in UG/PG or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 on a scale of 10 with corresponding 
proportional requirements when the scales are other than 10.
(iii) Preference will be given to working professionals in industry/R&D laboratories/Academic 
Institutions.
(iv) The applicant must qualify for the written test and /or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur or its 
appointed partner.
Program Fees:
The fee structure for the different programs is as follows:
● Certificate I: The fee for this basic certificate program is Rs 1,20,000
● Certificate II: The fee for this advanced certificate program is Rs 1,50,000 exclusive of the immersion
fees. After Completion of Certificate II, to further successfully enroll in PG Diploma, the candidate has 
to pay an additional programme fee of Rs 1,00,000.
● PG Diploma: The fee for the PG diploma program is Rs 2,50,000 exclusive of the immersion fees.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur 
Office of Academics 
NH 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur 
342037, 
INDIA Phone: (0291)2801132; 
eMail:office_academics_pg@iitj.ac.in

OMICS. The candidates who are applying only for the Certificate II program must have completed
similar courses as in Certificate I through prior formal academic training. To complete Certificate II
● Campus immersion fees (excluding lodging and food costs): Rs. 10,000.
Selection Procedure:
Candidates must complete an online application at https://oa.iitj.ac.in/PG_ADMISSION/. The selection 
process for admission will be based on a combination of factors, including written tests, interviews, and other 
criteria determined appropriate by the admission committee. Preference will be given to candidates with prior 
research exposure and/or industry experience in areas related to molecular biology, biotechnology, 
bioengineering, or bioinformatics. Such experience will be considered advantageous during the selection 
process. The admission committee reserves the right to establish specific cut-off criteria for shortlisting 
candidates. It is important to note that meeting the eligibility criteria alone does not guarantee shortlisting, as 
the criteria for shortlisting candidates are often more rigorous than the general eligibility requirements.
Features of the program:
A. Teaching Approach:
● Classes will be conducted online interactively and in-person during the campus immersion (only for
Certificate II and PG diploma programs). Students will have the opportunity to engage during the 
lectures actively. The recorded lectures and instructional resources will be made available online.
● Attendance will be recorded both online and in person during campus immersion.
● Participants must complete the compulsory course requirements, but they will have the flexibility to
select the elective courses based on their interests.
B. Credit requirements:
● Certificate Program I: To complete the Certificate Program, participants must earn 13 credits,
corresponding to approximately 210 hours. The program comprises four compulsory courses and one 
elective course.
● PG Diploma: It is an intensive and comprehensive program that combines the content of both the
Certificate Program I and the Certificate Program II. Students must earn 28 credits, corresponding to 
approximately 420 hours of study. This program includes eight compulsory courses and two elective 
courses including an industry oriented mini project. Participants who wish to obtain a PG Diploma 
while enrolled though Certificate Program II have to earn additional 13 credits from the specified 
booklet of elective courses.
C. Campus Immersion and Mini Project:
● The PG diploma program and Certificate program II includes campus immersion and a mini-project.
Participants will engage in dry or wet lab sessions, enabling them to gain practical skills and insights. 
During this period, participants will have the unique opportunity to interact with industry experts and 
esteemed faculty members, learning from their vast expertise and experiences. In addition, participants

Milestone Date
Last date of filling online application form Throughout the year
Cut-off date for an application to be considered for the admission
process 20 April (for Semester I)
31 January (for Semester II)
Announcement of shortlisted applicants for the admission process 25 April (for Semester I)
5 February (for Semester II)
Date of written test and/or Interview To be announced
will undertake a mini-project in collaboration with either an industry partner or IITJ faculty members. 
It will help them to apply their knowledge in real-world scenarios and gain practical exposure in the 
OMIC domain.
D. Assessment: Grading will be based on continuous assessments, quizzes, assignments, and examinations
throughout the semester.
Placement support for toppers:
The top-performing participants will receive support for placement in reputable companies. By leveraging 
our network of industry partnerships, we strive to facilitate a seamless transition of the participants to 
professional careers, ensuring their continued growth and advancement.
IMPORTANT DATES:
Application Procedure:
Applicants are requested to use the following link to fill out and submit the application form online:
This is a rolling advertisement and this online link will remain active throughout the year, however, applications will be 
processed at least twice a year. For Semester I (Semester II), applications submitted by 20 April (31 January) will be 
considered.
Applicants are required to pay the processing fee of Rs. 300 online while submitting the application form.
Contact us:
● For general inquiries related to the program, please contact us via email at pgd_omics@iitj.ac.in
● In case of any query with respect to online application, candidates may contact Office of Academics via
email at oa_automation@iitj.ac.in