SOURCE_PDF: 3ca01d6f91d0_Notification_Committee_for_assessment_of_nominations_received_for_the_REYA_Awards_20112.pdf

Ext
2. ernal Members
Sh. Gaurav Agarwal, IAS, District Collector & Magistrate, Jodhpur, and
Alumnus of IIT Kanpur Member
. 3 Sh. Anil Kumar, Director, FDDI Jodhpur Member
Me
4. mbers from IIT J odhpur
Dean of Resources and Alumni (DORA) Member
5. Dr. Mrituy njay R. Doddamani, Associate Professor, Deptt. of ME Member
6. Dr. Deepak K. Saxena, Associate Professor, SME Member
7. Dr. Aashish Mathur, Associate Professor, Deptt. of EE
8. Dr. Alok Ranjan, Assistant Professor, SoLA
9. Associate Dean, Alumni Relations (ADAR) Member
-1	d1
 St1
Plc61  
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
No. IITJ/REG/2025-26//Bj 
Dated: 20th November 2025
: 
Subject: 
Committee for assessment of nominations received for the REYA Awards
In exercise of powers vested upon him vide Statute 12 (2) (xiv) of the Institute; the Competent Authority 
has constituted the following Committee for assessment of nominations received for the Recognition of 
Excellence in Young Alumni (REYA) Awards given as under:
Terms of Reference: 
The Committee shall assess the nominations received for the Recognition of Excellence in Young Alumni 
(REYA) Awards on the basis of the following parameters:
1. Demonstrated and sustained excellence in their respective fields.
2. Recognitions received at a community, national, or international level.
3. The difficulty of problems solved and the magnitude of impact created.
4. Leadership demonstrated in their field of expertise.
The Office of DORA will scrutinize all nominations for basic eligibility and forward the shortlisted 
nominations to the Committee for consideration. Members of the Committee may attend the meetings 
either in person or via video conferencing. The Committee holds the discretion to recommend more 
than one alumnus under a single category and withhold an award in a given category in any year. 
The final list of selected alumni will be submitted to the Director for approval. In case the Committee 
is unable to converge on a single awardee under a category, the Director shall determine the 
awardee. Therefore, the decision of the Director shall remain final and binding.
Frequency of meeting: As and when required.
Tenure: Up to 31st August 2026
The Hindi version will 
follow.

To: 
1. Chairperson and all Members of the Committee
Copy to - for kind information
1.
Director
2.
Deputy Director
3.
Advisor to the Director
4.
All Deans/ 
Associate Deans/Professor-in-charge(s)/Head of the Deptts/Centres/Schools/Division
5.
All Faculty Members and Staff Members
6.
Webmaster to upload on the Intranet of the Institute's Website