SOURCE_PDF: 40d9e4e4e529_AR2012-13_20_English_.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Annual Report

CONTENTS
 Foreword 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 Organization
o Board of Governors 
 
 
 
 
 
6
o Finance Committee 
 
 
 
 
 
7
o Building and Works Committee 
 
 
 
8
o Institute Committees 
 
 
 
 
 
9
 Academics
o Academic Programmes 
 
 
 
 
 
14
o Centres of Excellence 
 
 
 
 
 
15
o International Relations 
 
 
 
 
 
25
o Undergraduate Research & Innovation Programme (UGRI) 
31
o High School Summer Camp 
 
 
 
 
31
o Conferences and Workshops 
 
 
 
 
32
o Innovation & Incubation 
 
 
 
 
37
o Short-Term Courses 
 
 
 
 
 
38
o Weekly Academic Seminars 
 
 
 
 
40
o Scholarship for Students 
 
 
 
 
40
o Foreign Language Training 
 
 
 
 
40
o Internships of Students 
 
 
 
 
 
41
 Facilities
o Present Campus 
 
 
 
 
 
 
46
 Academic Campus 
 
 
 
 
46
 Residential Area 
 
 
 
 
 
46
o Permanent Campus 
 
 
 
 
 
 
47
o Computer Centre 
 
 
 
 
 
 
48
o Library 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
49
o Laboratories 
 
 
 
 
 
 
52
o Health Centre 
 
 
 
 
 
 
73
o Sports Facilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
73
o SC/ST and OBC Cell 
 
 
 
 
 
73
o Hindi Cell 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
74
o Office Automation 
 
 
 
 
 
75
 Scholalry Activities
o Invited Lectures 
 
 
 
 
 
 
76
o Publications in Academic Journals 
 
 
 
76

o Conference Presentations and Publications 
 
 
82
 Faculty Members & Areas of Research Interest 
 
 
85
 Institute Staff 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
93
 Student Activities
o Unique Governance System (SCHoD) 
 
 
97
o Major Student Events 
 
 
 
 
 
100
o National Festivals 
 
 
 
 
 
104
o Parivartan 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
106
o Counselling Service 
 
 
 
 
 
108
o Student Placement Cell 
 
 
 
 
 
109
o Alumni Association 
 
 
 
 
 
111
o List of Students 
 
 
 
 
 
 
112
 Financial Brief 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
130

Foreword
This annual report presents the developments that took place in the institute 
in the year 2012-13. It was an year of steady progress in all spheres ranging 
from academics to gaining momentum in the construction of our permanent 
campus. At present, the institute offers B.Tech. programme in Computer 
Science and Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and 
Systems Science, and M.Tech. and Ph.D. programmes in Centre of Excellence 
in Energy, Centre of Excellence in Information and Communication 
Technology (ICT), and the Centre of Excellence in Systems Science (SS). The 
institute is looking forward to offering a B.Tech. and a Ph.D. programme in 
Biologically-inspired Systems Science from the ensuing academic year.
Promoting inter-disciplinary culture in each and every academic activity has 
been our tradition. Therefore, the institute has not adopted the structure of 
academic departments based on the individual disciplines. Accordingly, IIT 
Jodhpur is committed to developing state of the art, research-led and 
multidisciplinary centres of excellence where scholars from different 
disciplines carry out productive research on emerging and technological, 
scientific, and social issues that characterize the challenges faced by the 
contemporary world. The CoEs create a distinctive interdisciplinary and 
collaborative learning environment, giving our students a global outlook and 
holistic problem-solving approach. We aim to produce students who are 
highly innovative and entrepreneurial, and are proud that last year some of 
our students were hired by some of the best national and international 
companies. Our four Centres of Excellence in - Energy, Information and 
Communication Technology, Systems Science, Biologically-inspired Systems 
Science mark our distinctive inter-disciplinary culture.
The institute remains a locus of vibrant academic activities. Academic 
seminars, workshops, and lectures from experts belonging to various fields 
contribute substantially to the intellectual vigour prevailing in the campus. 
The research at IIT Jodhpur is focused on solving socio-economic problems 
and creating cost-effective technological solutions. With the help of our 
collaborators, the vision of our faculty, and a team of highly motivated 
students we aim to make IIT Jodhpur one of the premier institutes in the 
world. We are very proud of our students, faculty, and visiting faculty from 
around the country and the world.

At present, the institute is functioning from a temporary campus in MBM 
Engineering College, Ratanada, Jodhpur. We are looking forward to our own 
campus near Nagaur in Jodhpur which will be coming up soon. While being 
in temporary campus we are committed to making steady progress in the 
areas of excellence we have prioritized for ourselves. However, much remains 
to be done to uphold our mark of a premier educational institute in India. 
This calls for shouldering of responsibilities in their right earnest perspective 
from each and every individual associated with our institute. Following 
sections in this report present the academic and administrative steps taken in 
the direction of development.
Prof. Prem K. Kalra
Director

ORGANIZATION
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
Chairman 
Professor Goverdhan Mehta (FNA, FRS) 
University of Hyderabad 
Department of Organic Chemistry, 
Central University PO, 
Hyderabad - 500 046, 
Andhra Pradesh
Director (Ex-officio) 
Professor Prem K. Kalra 
Director, IIT Jodhpur 
Old Residency Road, Ratanada, 
Jodhpur – 342011
Member-Nominees of the IIT Council
Professor Pankaj Chandra 
Indian Institute of Management, 
Bangalore 560076
Dr. K. Vijay Raghavan 
Director, 
National Centre for Biological Science 
Bangalore 560076
Mr. Kiran Karnik 
Former President of NASSCOM, 
New Delhi 110016
Mr. D. R. Mehta 
Founder & Chief Patron, 
Bhagwan Mahavir Viklang Sahayta Samiti, 
13a-Gurunanak Path, Malviya Nagar, 
Jaipur – Rajasthan

State Government Nominee 
Mr. Rajeev Swarup 
Principal Secretary, Higher & Technical Education 
Government of Rajasthan Jaipur, Rajasthan
FINANCE COMMITTEE
Chairman 
Professor Goverdhan Mehta (FNA, FRS) 
University of Hyderabad 
Department of Organic Chemistry, 
Central University PO, 
Hyderabad - 500 046, 
Andhra Pradesh
Members
Professor Prem K. Kalra 
Director, IIT Jodhpur 
Old Residency Road, Ratanada, 
Jodhpur - 342011
Mr. G. S. Sood 
CMD National Scheduled Tribe, 
NBCC Tower, Finance & Development 
Hall No 1, 5th Floor, 15 Bhikaji Cama Place 
New Delhi 110 066
Mr. Umesh Kumar (IAS) 
N-1, Ghandinagar 
Bajaj Nagar Road, 
Jaipur 302015
Bureau Head (Technical Education) 
Additional Secretary 
Department of Higher Education 
Ministry of Human Research Development, Shastri Bhawan 
New Delhi - 110001

Financial Advisor, MHRD 
Additional Secretary & Financial Advisor, 
Department of Higher Education 
Ministry of Human Research Development, Shastri Bhawan 
New Delhi - 110001
BUILDING AND WORKS COMMITTEE
Chairman 
Professor Prem K. Kalra 
Director, IIT Jodhpur 
Old Residency Road, Ratanada, 
Jodhpur – 342011
Members
Mr. N.M.D. Jain 
ADG, CPWD (Retd.), 
170, 1st Floor, Jagriti Enclave, 
Delhi
Ms. Usha Kasana 
Chief Architect, 
Public Works Department 
Government of Rajasthan 
Jacob Road 
Jaipur

INSTITUTE COMMITTEES
Academic Committee
The committee co-ordinates all UG programmes with representatives from 
each discipline and PG programmes through the respective CoEs. Library 
matters also fall under this purview.
Members 
Dr. B. Venkata Ramana (Coordinator) 
Dr. Deepak M. Fulwani (Coordinator, PG Programmes) 
Dr. Barun Pratiher (CoE Energy) 
Dr. Ambesh Dixit (CoE Energy) 
Mr. Anupam Gupta (CoE ICT) 
Dr. Arnab Datta (CoE ICT) 
Dr. Satyabrata Adhikari (CoE SS) 
Dr. Subhashish Banerjee (CoE SS) 
Dr. Meenu Chhabra (CoE BISS) 
Dr. Sushmita Jha (CoE BISS) 
Dr. Laltu Chandra (Coordinator, Library) 
Dr. Anand Plapally (International Student Exchange) 
Dr. Gourishankar Hiremath 
Two Student Represetatives: Mahesh Chand Gurjar and Heena Rathore
Student Affairs 
Dr. Rahul Chhibber (Coordinator) 
Dr. Amit Mishra (WAVES) 
Dr. P. Pradeep Kumar (NUTS) 
Dr. Vidya Sarveswaran and Dr. Sushmita Jha (Counselling Service) 
Dr. Shree Prakash Tiwari and Dr. S. Harinipriya (SAGE) 
Dr. V.V.M.S. Chandramouli (PROM) 
Student Representatives: Shivam Verma, Narendra Kumar, Aditya Ranjan, 
Prince Gupta, Manu Agrawal, and Sidharth Jain
Library Committee 
Dr. Mainak Mazumdar (Coordinator) 
Dr. Subhashish Banerjee (Member from Systems Science CoE) 
Dr. Anil Kumar Tiwari (Member from ICT CoE) 
Dr. Laltu Chandra (Member from Energy CoE)

Dr. Ansu Louis (Member from BISS CoE) 
Dr. Kshema Prakash (Deputy Librarian)
Council of Wardens: Hostels, House Allotment and Guesthouse 
Dr. Akhilesh Mohan (Chairman) 
Dr. Satyabrata Adhikari 
Dr. Meenu Chhabra 
Dr. Sushmita Jha 
Dr. Anand Krishnan Plapally 
Dr. Gourishankar Hiremath 
Dr. Rahul Chhiber 
Dr. V. Narayanan 
Dr. V. Hari Narayanan 
Dr. Atul Kumar 
Dr. K. J. George 
Dr. Ashutosh Kumar Alok 
Dr. S. P. Tiwari
Placement: Student Placement and Internships 
Dr. Gaurav Harit (Coordinator) 
Dr. P. Pradeep Kumar 
Dr. Mainak Mazumdar 
Dr. Anand Krishnan Plapally 
Two Student Representatives: Tanmay Sethi, Manish Jain
Administration
This committee deals with media and public relations, non-academic staff 
recruitment, RTI, Hindi Cell, Health/Medical, space allocation, security, legal 
cell, finance, stores and purchases, institute functions, outreach activities, 
facility management.
Members 
Dr. Rajiv Shekhar (Coordinator) 
Dr. K. J. George (Security) 
Dr. Anil Kumar Tiwari (Health)

Dr. Rahul Singhal (Non-academic staff recruitment) 
Dr. Atul Kumar (Facility management) 
Dr. Atul Dubey (Legal Cell) 
Dr. C. M. Nagaraja (RTI) 
Dr. Ashutosh Kumar Alok (Outreach) 
Dr. Vivek Vijayvargiya (Media and Public) 
Dr. Bibhas Adhikari (Institute Functions) 
Dr. Puneet Sharma (Hindi Cell) 
Dr. Tanmay Paul
Research and Development
All project management (consultancy, sponsored, testing services, IPR, MoUs, 
Enterpreneurship, incubation and innovation, workshops and conferences, 
continuing education, tech transfer.
Members 
Dr. B. Ravindra (Coordinator) 
Dr. V. Narayanan (Sponsored workshops) 
Dr. Ravindra Arora (Policy issues) 
Dr. Rakesh Kumar Sharma (Recruitment and Automation) 
Dr. Sonam Mehrotra (IP, MoUs, Corporate Communications) 
Dr. Rakesh Saxena (Stores and Purchases) 
Dr. S. Harinipriya and Dr. Sandeep Kumar Yadav (Innovation and 
Incubation)
Faculty Affairs
Faculty recruitment, probation and regularization, students feedback, CPDA 
approvals, LTC and Leave, faculty meetings.
Members 
Dr. Vivek Vijayvargiya (Coordinator) 
Dr. V. Hari Narayanan (CPDA) 
Dr. Shaligram Tiwari (LTC and Leave) 
Dr. Manish Shrimali (Faculty Meetings and Students Feedback) 
Dr. Ansu Louis (Faculty Exchange)
Coordinators of each CoE: Dr. Bibhas Adhikari, Dr. Vivek Vijayvargiya (SS), 
Dr. B. Venkata Ramana, Dr. Sandeep Kumar Yadav (ICT), Dr. Manish

Shrimali, Dr. Meenu Chhabra (BiSS), Prof. Rajiv Shekhar, and Dr. B. Ravindra 
(Energy)
Lab Development
This committee looks after development of UG and PG Labs in the institute. 
Dr. Sandeep Kumar Yadav (Coordinator) 
Dr. Ashutosh Kumar Alok (CoE SS) 
Dr. Deepak Fulwani (CoE SS) 
Dr. Amit Mishra (CoE BiSS) 
Dr. Meenu Chhabra (CoE BiSS) 
Dr. C. M. Nagaraja (CoE Energy) 
Dr. P. Pradeep Kumar (CoE Energy) 
Dr. Anil Kumar Tiwari (CoE ICT) 
Mr. Anupam Gupta (CoE ICT)
Automation 
Dr. Rakesh Kumar Sharma (Coordinator) 
Dr. C. M. Nagaraja 
Dr. Atul Dubey 
Dr. Ambesh Dixit 
Dr. Kiran Kumar Rajashekhar Hiremath 
Dr. Pushkar Shripad Joglekar 
Dr. Gaurav Harit
Student Council 
President, SCHoD 
 
 
 
 
Ranveer Singh
General Executive, SAGE 
 
 
 
Sudhir Singh
General Executive, NUTS 
 
 
 
Rahul Kumar
General Executive, MAD 
 
 
 
Wins Goyal
General Executive, WAVES 
 
 
 
Rahul Rathore
General Executive, PROM 
 
 
 
Akhil Arora
Fourth Year Senators 
 
 
 
 
Saurabh Singh
Vinith Vemana
Third Year Senators 
 
 
 
 
Kalpnath Rao
Yeravothula Rohith
Second Year Senators 
 
 
 
 
Navneet Mittal
Saurabh Pandey
First Year Senator 
 
 
 
 
 
Tarun Devi Reddy
Girls Senator 
 
 
 
 
 
Snehlata Joshi
M.Tech. Senator 
 
 
 
 
 
Zeeshan Ahmed
Ph.D. Senator 
 
 
 
 
 
Belal Usmani

Academics
 Academic Programmes 
 Centres of Excellence 
 International Relations 
 R & D Projects 
 Undergraduate Research & Innovation Programme (UGRI) 
 High School Summer Camp 
 Conferences and Workshops 
 Innovation & Incubation 
 Short-Term Courses 
 Weekly Academic Seminars 
 Scholarship for Students 
 Foreign Language Training 
 Student Internship

Classical Areas Emerging Areas
Computer Science and Engineering Biologically-Inspired Systems Science
Electrical Engineering Energy
Mechanical Engineering Information and Communication Technologies
Mathematics Systems Science
Academic Programmes
IIT Jodhpur offers five Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.) programmes, 
namely:
(1) B.Tech. Computer Science and Engineering 
(2) B.Tech. Electrical Engineering 
(3) B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering 
(4) B.Tech. Systems Science 
(5) B.Tech. Biologically Inspired Systems Science
The duration of B. Tech programmes is 4 years. The objectives of these 
undergraduate programmes are to:
1. To provide fundamental concepts to students in technology and
2. To promote spirit of free and objective enquiry in the field of study,
and
3. To contribute towards development of skilled technical manpower to
address the technological needs of the nation.
In addition to the B. Tech. programme, the Institute also offers two-year 
M.Tech. programmes in the following centres:
1. Centre for Energy 
2. Centre for Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) 
3. Centre for Systems Science (SS)
The aim of the Ph.D. programme at IIT Jodhpur is to develop graduates 
having good knowledge and research training in classical and emerging 
areas. IIT Jodhpur has organized the research activity in two sets, in namely, 
(a) Classical Areas: individual disciplines of engineering, science and 
humanities and social sciences, and (b) Emerging Areas: domains of research 
centers of the Institute.
Ph.D. programmes currently offered by IIT Jodhpur:

Centres of Excellence
IIT Jodhpur is committed to developing state of the art, research-led and 
multidisciplinary centres of excellence where scholars from different 
disciplines carry out productive research on emerging and technological, 
scientific, and social issues that characterize the challenges faced by the 
contemporary world. In order to promote the inter-disciplinary culture in 
each and every academic activity, IIT Jodhpur does not adopt the structure of 
establishing the academic departments based on the individual disciplines. 
Only undergraduate programmes are offered in the individual disciplines.
Presently, IIT Jodhpur has four Centres of Excellence in the following areas:
1. Energy 
2. Information and Communication Technology 
3. Systems Science, and 
4. Biologically-inspired Systems Science
Centre of Excellence in Energy
Introduction
The objective of CoE in Energy is to provide diverse energy solutions with a 
significant focus on solar energy. The goals include globalized research and 
development activities, indigenisation of technology for various subsystems 
and realization of product development in the areas of Solar Thermal and 
Photovoltaic research.
With an interdisciplinary approach that combines sciences and engineering, 
the research activities of the centre fall under four different areas namely:
1. Solar Thermal Design and Analysis 
2. Material Design and Fabrication 
3. Smart Grid for Photovoltaic and Solar Thermals 
4. Structural Design
Academic Curriculum
The academic curriculum has compulsory and elective components. 
Compulsory courses expose students to (i) different mechanical and electrical 
processes related to power generation and transmission, (ii) physics of

semiconductor devices associated with solar photovoltaics, and (iii) concepts 
of systems engineering for designing complex projects by integrating 
knowledge from different sub-systems. Extensive laboratory experiments and 
projects supplement the compulsory courses. The electives allow students to 
choose from a variety of courses based on their interests: solar and nuclear 
power, bioenergy systems, electrochemical power sources, power electronics, 
energy materials, structural dynamics, two-phase flow, and solar refrigeration 
and air-conditioning. Summer bridge courses are offered to students 
immediately after their admission to prepare them for the multi-disciplinary 
compulsory courses offered in the first semester.
Research and Development
Research and development efforts focus on the development of low-cost 
technology initiatives to implement renewable energy generation and usage 
through extensive industry-academia collaboration. Being located in Jodhpur, 
the sun city of India, harnessing solar energy for power generation and 
cooling/heating has been the primary focus of the R&D efforts under the 
auspices of the Centre for Solar Energy Technologies (CSET).

CSET has been designated as a Centre of Excellence in Solar Thermal Energy 
by the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE), Govt. of India. IIT 
Jodhpur has earmarked a 200 acre land on its permanent campus for creating 
a solar park, comprising various technologies under one roof. The CSET will 
consist of (i) Solar thermal and solar PV Technology Demonstration Units 
(TDUs), (ii) facilities for R&D for developing value-added applications of 
solar energy technologies, (iii) facilities for testing, calibration and 
benchmarking for both solar thermal and solar PV technologies, and (iv) HRD 
and knowledge services. CSET is geared to giving its students a vibrant, 
laboratory-to-plant scale research experience. Major grants to CSET have 
been received from MNRE and the Asian Development Bank.
The institute has Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) with AREVA, CEA 
France, Indian Oil Limited, BHEL, Thermax, NFTDC-Hyderabad for 
collaboration in R&D in energy. Further, the centre has Academic and 
Research collaboration agreements with the University of Waterloo, 
University of California, Merced, University of Western Ontario, URV 
Tarragona, Spain.
Major Research Themes and Goals
 Solar absorber coatings and thermic fluids 
 Volumetric air receivers for heat and power generation 
 Thermal storage 
 DC smart micro-grid 
 Characterization 
of 
crystalline 
and 
amorphous 
silicon 
based
photovoltaic power systems.
 Electrochemical power sources and storage focussing on lithium ion
batteries and fuel cells
 Hydrogen generation by water splitting 
 Solar cooling
Associated Faculty as on 31 March 2013
 Dr. Ambesh Dixit 
 Dr. Anand Krishnan Plapally 
 Dr. Barun Pratiher 
 Dr. Gourishankar Hiremath 
 Dr. Laltu Chandra 
 Dr. V. Narayanan

 Dr. P. Pradeep Kumar 
 Dr. Prodyut Ranjan Chakraborty 
 Dr. Rahul Chhibber 
 Dr. Rajiv Shekhar 
 Dr. Rakesh Saxena 
 Dr. B. Ravindra 
 Dr. Ravindra Arora 
 Dr. Shaligram Tiwari 
 Dr. Vidya Sarveswaran
Centre of Excellence in Information and Communication Technology
Introduction
Education, knowledge, information, and communication are at the core of 
human 
progress, 
endeavour, 
and 
well-being. 
Information 
and
Communication Technology (ICT) has an immense impact on virtually all 
aspects of our lives. The rapid progress of ICT opens up completely new 
opportunities to attain higher levels of development. For the first time in 
history, the capacity of these technologies to reduce many traditional 
obstacles, especially those of time and distance, has been recognized in such a 
way that millions of people in all corners of the world would benefit. Yet this 
Centre of Excellence holds the view that ICT should be regarded as a tool and 
not as an end in itself. Under favourable conditions, the technology can be a 
powerful instrument for increasing productivity, generating economic 
growth, for job creation and employability, and also for improving the quality 
of life of all.
The CoE in ICT strives for developing innovative and sustainable Information 
and Communication Technology (ICT) based solutions for addressing the 
socio-economic and environmental problems. Centre of Excellence in 
Information 
and 
Communication 
Technology 
(CoE 
in 
ICT) 
offers
multidisciplinary research and academic programmes in the domain of 
Information 
and 
Communication 
Technology 
and 
their 
theoretical
foundations. The research activities are broadly categorized under three 
research axes:

 Communication and Networks 
 Device Technology 
 Multimedia and Software Systems
Major Goals of the Centre
 
To develop skilled and competitive human resources through high 
quality academic programmes in ICT.
 
To conduct fundamental and applied research in the areas of ICT in 
collaboration with Government, Private Sector and International 
organizations.
 
To develop functionality driven low-cost ICT solutions for building 
inclusive societies.
Research Themes
 
Developing low-cost networking solutions - cheaper internet 
everywhere.
 
Developing low-cost access devices.
 
Developing low-cost e-Healthcare solutions.
o Computer Vision/ Signal Processing/ Medical Imaging
 
Hardware Design and Benchmarking.
o Embedded Systems
 
Low cost Access Devices for Education/Health 
Monitoring
 
EDA tools
o Instrumentation and Testing
o Robotics and Automation
o Biomimetics
 
Sustaining environment through ICT
 
Networks/ Sensor Networks

The CoE in ICT is an inter-disciplinary venture. It hosts the top-notch 
scientists with a background ranging from mathematical sciences, natural 
sciences to applied fields of systems engineering, and other disciplines of 
engineering. It works to solve social problems, and these problems are highly 
inter-disciplinary in nature.
The centre started M. Tech. Programme in ICT in the academic year 2011-12. 
Twenty-six students were admitted to the programme. Thirteen Ph.D. 
students also joined the centre in this academic year. The centre also initiated 
two laboratories—Networking Technologies Lab and SOC Lab. The centre’s 
achievements include providing the right hardware and software tools for 
many industry consultancy projects, including the development of 
DRM/DRM+ IP for digital radio standards.
Associated Faculty as on 31 March 2013
 Dr. Abhishek Mishra 
 Dr. Akhilesh Mohan 
 Dr. Ananya Debnath 
 Dr. Anil Kumar Tiwari 
 Dr. Arnab Datta 
 Dr. Gaurav Harit 
 Dr. Mahesh Kumar 
 Dr. Sandeep Kumar Yadav 
 Dr. Shanmuganathan Raman 
 Dr. Shree Prakash Tiwari 
 Dr. Venkata Ramana Badarla 
 Dr. Vivek Dixit

Centre of Excellence in Systems Science
Introduction
The Centre of Excellence in Systems Science IIT Jodhpur from its very 
inception in 2011 has aimed to promote and implement interdisciplinary 
education and research by adopting a holistic systems thinking approach. The 
Centre upholds its vision of transforming students into young trained 
graduates who are imbibed with the spirit of systems thinking in diverse 
domains of engineered systems, natural systems, and financial systems. At 
present, there are 18 energetic and dedicated faculty members in the Centre. 
The areas of research of the Centre include quantitative finance, quantum 
information, complex networks and systems, nonlinear dynamics and chaos, 
chemical reaction dynamics, graph algorithms, and image processing. The 
Centre has been actively engaged in organizing conferences, workshops both 
at the national and international level.
The Centre had started Ph.D. and B. Tech. programme in 2011, and 
subsequently commenced M. Tech. programme in 2012. The programmes aim 
at creating systems thinkers, who can develop, construct, model, operate, 
redesign, verify and integrate various systems. The Centre collaborates with 
other Centres of Excellence at IIT Jodhpur in research and courses at B. Tech. 
and M. Tech. level in various semesters of programmes hosted by those 
Centres.
 
Evaluate the cost effectiveness of the engineered systems and 
manufacturing processes that are becoming increasingly complex;
 
Develop rigorous mathematical frameworks that give a deeper insight 
into a lot of interesting and complex problems in natural sciences;
 
Investigate the isomorphy of ideas, laws, and models in various fields 
of science and engineering;
 
Develop new methods for the forecasting and quantification of 
uncertainties in lieu of societal concerns that have led to regulatory 
actions for more stringent requirements for the safety and reliability of 
products demand;
 
Process large scale data in order to extract better information and 
knowledge.
However, keeping in mind factors such as the emerging challenges for the 
Indian economy due to globalization, the growing concern for sustainable

development because of the limited availability of resources, and the 
increasing sensitivity to anthropogenic effects on the environment, the CoE 
would also continually analyze and evaluate its activities in a broader social 
context, over and above the basic concerns presented above.
Research Themes
 Quantitative Finance 
 Quantum Information 
 Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos 
 Complex Networks and Systems
Academic Programmes
Since one of the principal objectives of the CoE is to undertake cutting-edge 
research, the centre has developed curriculum in System Science to provide 
high quality academic training to students and make them distinguished 
scholars in the field of SS. To fulfill this objective the centre offers B.Tech., 
M.Tech., and Ph.D. programmes in Systems Science. The curriculum of 
B.Tech. programme has been developed after conducting several brain-
storming sessions or ‘discussions hours’ organized regularly in the year 2011. 
After a few rounds of discussions the present curriculum for B.Tech. was 
finalized in the brain-storming session organized from 9-10 December 2011. 
Several experts from reputed industries and distinguished scholars from 
various academics institutes in India were invited in these sessions to develop 
a coherent and balanced curriculum for B.Tech. and M.Tech. programmes 
keeping in view the requirement of the industry and what is ‘state-of-the-art’ 
in the discipline of Systems Science.
Further, in the workshop on Systems Science: Complex Networks & 
Applications, conducted from 7-9 May, 2012 the course curriculum of 
M.Tech. and Ph.D. programmes were further debated and discussed before 
they were finalized and launched. Given the interdisciplinary nature of the 
subject, the Systems Science centre of IIT Jodhpur has an agglomeration of 
faculty members from various disciplines such as Mathematics, Physics, 
Chemistry, Economics, System & Control, and Mechanical Engineering etc. 
Systems Science core programme has a rich blend of courses focusing on:
 Networks 
 Systems Dynamics, Design and Management 
 Financial Engineering

Associated Faculty Members as on 31 March 2013
 Dr. Ashutosh Kumar Alok 
 Dr. Atul Kumar 
 Dr. Bibhas Adhikari 
 Dr. Kiran Kumar Rajashekhar Hiremath 
 Dr. Mainak Mazumdar 
 Dr. Manikandan Paranjothy 
 Dr. Puneet Sharma 
 Dr. Pushkar Shripad Joglekar 
 Dr. Rakesh Kumar Sharma 
 Dr. S. Harinipriya 
 Dr. Satyabrata Adhikari 
 Dr. Subhashish Banerjee 
 Dr. Vivek Vijayvargiya 
 Dr. V.V.M.S. Chandramouli
Introduction
The broad objective of the centre is to design novel, adaptive, and sustainable 
technological solutions inspired by biological systems and processes. 
Understanding biological systems will help an engineer to design adaptive 
intelligent systems for the ever changing environment. The major 
characteristic of this centre is its strong interdisciplinary approach. With such 
an interdisciplinary approach, the centre seeks to promote holistic

development of innovative technological solutions. The area of research in the 
centre are development of environmentally compatible materials, smart 
sensors with advanced surveillance systems, improved diagnostic and better 
therapeutic technology.
Major Research Themes and Initiatives
1. Biological information processing and propoagation in a network; 
2. Neuroscience and the role of protein assemblies for therapeutics &
3. Cognitive studies through philosophy and psychology; 
4. Emergent phenomenon of consciousness; 
5. Bio-inspired modelling and designing, algorithms, mechanics, real
world applications;
6. Cellular 
and Molecular Neuroscience 
and 
Computational
The CoE BiSS is looking forward to offering a four year bachelor’s (B. Tech.) 
programme and a doctoral programme starting from July 2013.

Associated Members as on 31 March 2013
 Dr. Amit Mishra 
 Dr. Ananya Debnath 
 Dr. Ankita Sharma 
 Dr. Ansu Louis 
 Dr. K. J. George 
 Dr. Manish Shrimali 
 Dr. Meenu Chhabra 
 Dr. Monika Sinha 
 Dr. Samanwita Pal 
 Dr. Satyajit Sahu 
 Dr. Sonam Mehrotra 
 Dr. Sushmita Jha 
 Dr. V. Hari Narayanan
International Relations
Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) between IIT Jodhpur and
International and National Institutions, and Agencies
1. University of Western Ontario, Canada (09/08/2010)
To explore the possibilities for cooperation in education, training, and 
research and also to encourage direct contact and mutual cooperation 
between faculty members, departments, and research centres.
2. Universitat Rovira I Virgili, Tarrgona, Spain (29/08/2010)
Development of mutually beneficial academic programme and courses; 
coordination of academic staff travel for the purposes of teaching, 
research, and training; cooperation of student mobility programme for 
study, research, and for joint academic activities such as research 
publications, conferences and symposia; exchange of documentation 
and research materials in the field of mutual interest provided that 
there are no legal barriers against exchange and collaboration in 
international master’s and doctoral programmes between both the 
institutions.

3. The Commissariat a I’Energie Atomique et aux Energies Alternatives
France (22/11/10) 
Cooperation in the areas of solar energy research, such as Concentrated 
Solar Power (CSP) and Concentrated Photovoltic (CPV), water 
production by using solar energy, renewable energy storage and smart 
management, integration of solar energies and energy efficiency in 
buildings.
4. University of Waterloo, Canada (25/11/2010)
Collaborative measures to foster international experience and 
advancement of knowledge on the basis of reciprocity, mutual benefit, 
interaction and exchange of students in graduate programmes.
5. University of Manitoba, Canada (09/12/2010)
Development of mutually beneficial programmes for student 
internships and graduate study in order to provide students 
opportunities for advancement of knowledge and international 
experience.
6. Embassy of France in India (28/03/2011)
For exploring prospective domains for students and scholars to learn 
French language effectively.
7. University of California, Merced (26/04/2011)
Development of mutually beneficial relationships for promoting 
academic exchange, scholarly cooperation, and collaborations under 
mutually agreeable terms and conditions: the exchange of faculty 
members, scientists and students and scientific material, access to 
library resources, pursuit of joint meetings, symposia and/or 
conferences and access to laboratories as may be appropriate and 
feasible in the two institutes.
8. Arid Forest Research Institute, Jodhpur, India (15-08-2011)
Development of sheltering belt plantation as urban forestry model for 
at a selected site at IIT Jodhpur.
9. Institute of Science and Technology, Nara, Japan (28/02/2012)
To promote academic exchanges in fields where each party needs to 
enhance its educational and academic programmes: the academic 
exchanges will include, implementation of collaborative research, joint 
symposia, lectures and education and exchange of scholars, 
researchers, and administrative staff; exchange of information in fields

which are of interest to both parties and exchange of graduate students 
in fields of interest to both parties.
Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) with Industries
1. National Instruments (NI) Systems (India) Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore (dated
25/11/2010) 
National Instruments and IIT Jodhpur work together through research 
and development to develop the Institute as well-recognized centre of 
excellence in the fields of wireless communication and physical layer 
technologies. Furthermore, National Instruments, being the supplier of 
computer-based instrumentation hardware and software product 
developed by its affiliated both from the academia and industry, 
expressed its desire to establish a graphical system design centre for 
students and professionals across the nation.
2. Areva Renouvelable, France (dated 06/12/2010)
Cooperation in R&D area, such as characterization of reflector, dirtying 
rates and soiling materials in relationship with local air quality; 
development of a DNI measurement survey laboratory and techniques 
for assaying the date to predict and optimize CSP performance; clouds 
detection and anticipation methods and techniques to adapt CSP 
process 
control 
operating 
conditions 
for 
maximizing 
energy
production; development of a testing and bench marking laboratory 
for solar systems with due attention to Areva Renouvelable technology 
in the Indian context.
3. C-Wet and SRRA (dated 10/05/2011)
Collaboration in establishing a solar radiation resource assessment 
station.
4. Bharat Heavy Electricals Limites (BHEL), Indian Oil Corporation
Limited (IOC) (dated 17/10/2011) 
Collaborate for the promotion of research, innovation, and education 
and providing a model for industry-academia partnership in the 
following broad objectives: Basic research in solar energy and up-
scaling performance validation of solar technologies.

5. ITI Limited (dated 16/12/2011)
To introduce co-operative development and research in areas such as 
Optical Communication including free space Optical communication, 
Encryption technologies, embedded systems, SCADA and NMS 
system, and radio and microwave communications.
6. Amaitha Wireless Technologies (dated 02/02/2012)
Cooperation in the conceptualization, design and development of 
computing, communication, and converged devices associated 
software and required functionality affordable in optimum cost.
7. Quad Electronics Private Limited ( dated 14/01/2012)
Cooperation 
in 
research 
and 
development 
computing 
and
communication devices that can be of interest to the entire population 
and can serve to bridge digital divide of India.
8. Steag Energy Services (SESI) (dated 23/04/2012)
Mutual agreement for the development of a dynamic solar thermal 
simulator and collaboration for research and training on the solar 
thermal simulator.
R& D Projects
Faculty members at IIT Jodhpur are also engaged in various projects that relate to 
research and development, and consultancy with other national and international 
organizations. Ongoing project and projects sanctioned during 2012-13 are:
Spondored Projects
1. The Village Community Network: Technology Development and Pilot Roll out Plan
for Low Cost Opportunistic Communication Networks for Rural Areas of India. 
Sponsored by the Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD). 
Principal Investigator: Prof. P.K. Kalra, Dr. K.S. Daya.
2. E-Books on Introduction to High Energy Physics, Introduction to Astroparticle
Physics and Instrumentation Methods in Astroparticle Physics. Sponsored by the 
Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD). Principal Investigator: 
Prof. P.K. Kalra, Dr. S. Bhatnagar.
3. Development of Low Cost Mobile Robots - Robotics for Education. Sponsored by
the Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD). Principal 
Investigator: Dr. Swagat Kumar, Dr. Sandeep Kumar Yadav.
4. Development of Analysis and Indexing Tools for Harnessing Educational Videos.
Sponsored by the Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD). 
Principal Investigator: Dr. Gaurav Harit, Dr. Anil K. Tiwari.

5. Language, Cognition & the Human Mind. Sponsored by the Indian Council of
Philosophical Research & MHRD. Principal Investigator: Dr. V. Hari 
Narayanan.
6. Conceptualization and Design Study for Freespace Material Characterization
Facility. Sponsored by Defence Research & Development Organization, 
Jodhpur. Principal Investigator: Dr. Akhilesh Mohan.
7. Identification, assessment and Characterization of E3 Ubiquitin Ligases and
Molecular Chaperones Implicated in Neurogenerative Diseases. Sponsored by the 
Department of Science & Technology (DST). Principal Investogator: Dr. Amit 
Mishra
8. Establishment of the Centre of Excellence in Solar Thermal Research and Education.
Sponsored by the Ministry of New & Renewable Energy. Principal 
Investigator: Prof. Rajiv Shekhar
9. Study of Aligned CNT/Polymer Nanocomposites for Hydrogen Storage. Sposored
by the Science and Engineering Research Board (DST). Principal Investigator: 
Dr. Balram Tripathi
10. Generation, Storage and Distribution of Solar Hydrogen. Sponsored by the
Department of Science & Technology. Principal Investigator: Dr. Rakesh 
Kumar Sharma
11. Advancement in Nuclear Reactor Design Pertaining to NRFCC. Sponsored by the
Department 
of 
Atomic 
Energy. 
Principal 
Investigator: 
Dr. 
Vivek
Vijayvargiya
12. Reproductive Child Health. Sponsored by UNICEF, Jaipur Branch. Principal
Investigator: Dr. Sandeep Kumar Yadav
13. Molecular Sensors: Synthesis and Anion Recognition Studies. Sponsored by the
Science & Engineering Research Board (DST). Principal Investigator: Dr. 
Rakesh Kumar Sharma
14. IOC-BHEL-IITJ CSP Plant. Sponsored by the Indian Oil Corporation Limited.
Principal Investigator: Prof. Rajiv Shekhar
15. Development of Programmable Emulator for Photovoltaic Plant to Facilitate Complex
Testing Requirements. Sponsored by the Science and Engineering Research 
Board (DST). Principal Investigator: Dr. Deepak M. Fulwani
16. Innovation and Incubation Centre. Sponsored by the Rajasthan State
Government with IIT Jodhpur. Principal Investigator: Dr. Sandeep Kumar 
Yadav
17. Asymmetric Hydrogenation on Carbon Nanotube Surface. Sponsored by the
Department of Science & Technology (DST). Principal Investigator: Dr. 
Rakesh Kumar Sharma
18. Hunting of New Physics through b-> S Transitions. Sponsored by Council of
Scientific & Industrial Research, New Delhi. Principal Investigator: Dr. 
Ashutosh Kumar Alok
19. Developing Dielectric Semiconductor Combinations and Processes for Flexible
Organic Electronics. Sponsored by the Science and Engineering Research 
Board (DST). Principal Investigator: Dr. Shree Prakash Tiwari

20. Performance of Solar Power Plants in India-Data Collection, Analysis and
Interpretation. Sposored by Shakti Sustainable Energy Foundation, New Delhi. 
Principal Investigator: Dr. S. Harinipriya
21. Link Budget Estimator Project. Sponsored by Weapons & Electronics Systems
Engineering Establishment, Ministry of Defence. Principal Investigator: Dr. 
Sandeep Kumar Yadav
22. Synchrony Based Evolution of Various Biological and Artificial Systems to
Understand Complex Computational Aspects. Sponsored by the Department of 
Science & Technology (DST). Principal Investigator: Dr. Satyajit Sahu
23. Development of III-Nitrides this Film(s) for High Frequency Saw Device
Applications. Sponsored by the Department of Space. Principal Investigator: 
Dr. Ambesh Dixit
24. Heritage Erasmus Mundus Programme. Sponsored by A.C. DEL, ECOLE,
Germany. Principal Investigator: Dr. Kiran Kumar Rajashekhar Hiremath.
Consultancy Projects
1. One Stop Educational Portal. Sponsored by Chattisgarh Infotech & Biotech
Promotion Society. Principal Investigator: Prof. P.K. Kalra, Dr. Sandeep 
Kumar Yadav.
2. Development of Intelligent Instrumentation and Cellular Communication Courses.
Sponsored by NI Systems (I) Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore. Principal Investigator: Dr. 
Sandeep Kumar Yadav.
3. Development of DRM/DRM+ Standards. Sponsored by NI Systems (I) Pvt. Ltd.,
Bangalore. Principal Investigator: Dr. Sandeep Kumar Yadav.
4. Development of Prototype of Microbial Fuel cells. Sponsored by Panasonic R&D
Centre of India. Principal Investigator: Dr. S. Harinipriya
5. Barmer. Sponsored by World BPO Forum, US. Principal Investigator: Dr.
Sandeep Kumar Yadav
6. Design of Circular Waveguide to Coaxial Transition and Dipole Probe for E-Field
Measurement. Sponsored by Defence Research & Development Organization, 
Jodhpur. Principal Investigator: Dr. Akhilesh Mohan
7. Energy Efficiency Investigations in Shree Cement Plant. Shree Cement Plant,
Kolkata. Principal Investigator: Prof. Rajiv Shekhar.

professional developments. This year the institute received nearly 730
2012. Students were selected purely on the basis of academic achievements
Undergraduate Research & Innovation Programme (UGRI- 2012)
This year’s UGRI programme began on May 8, 2012 and ended on July 20, 
2012 (for duration of 10 weeks). Selected students were provided 
accommodation in students’ hostel at IIT Jodhpur. During this period, a 
remuneration of Rs. 8000 per month was offered as financial assistance to the 
participants. Furthermore, the students received an additional Rs. 2000 for 
preparing posters and interim reports. The students worked on projects 
related to Energy, Health, Environment, and ICT (Information and 
Communication Technologies).
High School Summer Camp
During summers IIT Jodhpur invites applications from senior secondary 
students (Class XI or XII) from schools in Jodhpur with an intention to 
nurture their curiosity to know the unknown. In doing so, the faculty 
members of the institute answer their queries and expose them to state-of-the-
art technologies. Students possessing Class X marksheet are eligible to apply. 
Upon successful completion of the programme, a certificate is awarded to 
each participant.
In the summer of 2012, twenty one students were selected through a 
screening process based mainly on their Class X academic records. The 
selected students spent almost one month at IIT Jodhpur— from 2nd to 30th of 
June—participating in lectures, workshops, lab sessions, group works and 
field visits. At the end of the programme, all these students participated in a

poster presentation which displayed their learning during their stay at IIT 
Jodhpur.
Conferences and Workshops
Workshop on Systems Science: Complex Networks and Applications
May 07-09, 2012

IIT Jodhpur organized this workshop to explore recent trends in complex 
network and to make a bridge between academia and industry. The 
workshop provided a broad overview of the area with illustrative 
applications from various fields.
Major Topics of Discussion were the following:
 
Complex Networks: Theory and Applications
 
Random Graphs and Complex Networks
 
Topology and Dynamics of Complex Networks
 
Evolutionary Dynamics on Complex Networks
 
Information and Communication Networks
 
Social Networks, Biological Networks, etc
Delegates 
from 
Industries 
and 
R&D 
organizations 
and
Researchers/Academicians from all over the India participated in the 
workshop. Through lectures, presentation of case studies and interactive 
sessions, participants were be exposed to the emerging field of complex 
networks.
Solar Radiation Resource Assessment and Modelling Workshop
August 07 – 09, 2012
The commercial viability of a solar power plant is critically dependent on the 
accuracy of predicting solar insolation on a daily/hourly basis over several 
years. This requires a good working knowledge of solar radiation 
measurement techniques, data mining, and developing mathematical models 
based on statistical and artificial intelligence techniques. This workshop was 
organized to (i) understand solar measurements, (ii) evaluate the quality of a 
data set, and (iii) model radiation data. The focus of the workshop was an 
understanding of how to design and deploy a measurement campaign, how 
to avoid many pitfalls of solar measurements, techniques to identify 
measurement problems and keep a measurement station producing the best 
possible data, and develop a predictive mathematical model for radiation for 
use in designing solar projects. The topics discussed in this workshops are,
 Solar Radiation Concepts and Methods 
 Solar Radiation Data Quality and Use of Data in Projects 
 In Depth Station Set Up and Operations

The participants included Mr. Stephen Wilcox, Prof. Prem K. Kalra, Prof. 
Neeraj Misra, Prof. Amit Mitra, Prof. Laxmidhar Behera, Dr. Vivek Vijay.
National Workshop on Biologically Inspired System Science
September 29 - 30, 2012
The purpose of this workshop “Biologically Inspired System Science”is to seek 
inputs from educationalists and researchers in designing the undergraduate 
and postgraduate course curriculums for Biologically Inspired System Science 
(BISS) programme. The topics discussed in the workshops are as follows,
 
Neuroscience and Cognition
 
Psychology and Neuropsychology
 
Quantum Information and Physics of Consciousness
 
History and Philosophy of Science
 
Biosignal Processing
 
Machine learning and Intelligent Systems
 
Dynamical Systems
 
Hierarchical Systems
The organizing committee included Dr. Ambesh Dixit, Dr. Amit Mishra, Dr. 
Ansu Louis, Dr. Hari Narayan, Dr. K. J. George, Dr. Manish Shrimali 
(Convener), Dr. Meenu Chhabra, (Convener), Dr. Rahul Singhal, Dr. Sonam 
Mehrotra and Dr. Sushmita Jha. The participants are Dr. A S Majumdar, Dr. 
Arun Murthi, Dr. Arvind Mathur, Dr. Dulal Panda, Dr. Harish Karnick, Dr. 
Jamuna Rajeswaran, Dr. Karmeshu, Dr. Nandini Singh, Dr. Nirmalangshu 
Mukherjee, Dr. Raju Bapi, Dr. R. Srikanth, Dr. Sangeetha Menon, Dr. Sanjeev 
Misra, Dr. Shobini Rao, Dr. Sneha Anand and Dr. Tanusree Dutta.
International Workshop on Art, Culture and Heritage
December 08-10, 2012
IIT Jodhpur is committed to the development of state of the art, research-led, 
multidisciplinary centre. Scholars from diverse disciplines engage in a 
spectrum of research activities ranging from the scientific to the aesthetic. This 
workshop is an attempt to study and understand the syntheses that can occur 
between fine arts and technology. The workshop aimed at formulation of

curriculum in the broad areas of Art, Culture and Heritage with a 
technological perspective. The topics discussed during the workshop are:
 Architecture 
 Literature 
 Music 
 Visual Arts 
 Performing Arts
The participants included Prof. David Rosenboom, Dr. Matteo Dellepiane, 
Prof. Pallabi Chakravorty, Prof. Joan Erdman, Prof. S N Balagangadhara, Prof. 
Nina Sabnani, Prof. S. Swaminathan, Mridangam Maestro Shri T R Rajamani, 
Prof. Roberto Scopigno, Prof. Marcello Balzani, Dr. M. Nandini, Dr. M. 
Lalitha, Prof. V.Sanil, Dr. Shantala Hegde, Prof. Subhendu Ghosh, Prof. Kiran 
Seth, Dr. Srinivasan Krishnaswamy, Dr. Koumudi P Patil, Prof. Sunita Singh 
Sengupta. The organizing committee was Prof. Prem K. Kalra, Dr Ansu Louis, 
Dr Anand K Plappally, Dr Hari Narayanan, Dr Mainak Mazumdar, Dr Rahul 
Singhal, Dr Bibhas Adhikari, Dr Vidya Sarveswaran, Dr Puneet Sharma, Dr 
Atul Kumar, Dr Rahul Singhal, Dr Shanmuganathan Raman, Dr Ashutosh 
Alok, Dr Vivek Vijay, Prof K. K. Dua; Dr S P Tiwari; Dr Manish Shrimali; Dr 
Sonam Mehrotra, Dr Sushmita Jha; Dr Satyabrata Adhikari; Dr VVMS 
Chandramouli; Dr Gaurav Harit, Dr K J George, Dr Gourishanker Hiremath 
and Dr. S. Harinipriya.
Quantum Biology Workshop
January 25 – 27, 2013
This international workshop to witness and evaluate the interaction, 
transformation and integration that occur between Quantum mechanics and 
biological sciences. The analysis and characterization of biological systems 
from the perspective of quantum mechanics is a nascent area of research. The 
workshop attempts to cover a gamut of themes ranging from understanding 
the mechanism of photo-synthesis, quantum tunnelling, quantum processes 
related to olfactory functions for the development of better performing 
artificial systems.At IIT Jodhpur, this workshop not only provides exciting 
insights in these new areas of research, but also provides a platform to initiate 
this interdisciplinary research both at the national and international levels. 
The following were the broad areas of discussion at the workshop:

 The possible reasons behind the efficieny of photo-synthesis 
 Artificial photo synthetic systems & production of bio-fuels 
 Quantum mechanics, decoherence in biological systems & applications
to quantum computing
 Quntum consciousness 
 Role of DNA in storing information
The participants included Prof. Jasper Knoester, Prof.Andreas Buchleitner, 
Prof. Pramod S. Joag, Prof. Prem Kalra, Dr. Satyajit Sahu, Dr. Ashutosh 
Kumar Alok, Dr. Atul Kumar, Dr. Satyabrata Adhikari, Dr. Sonam Mehrotra, 
Prof.Jayendra N Bandyopadhyay, Prof.Makis Skoulakis, Prof.Akihito Ishizaki, 
Prof.Jack Tuszynski, Prof. R. Srikanth, Prof. Yasser Omar, Prof. Susana 
Huelga, Prof. Rienk Van Grondelle, Prof.Karoline Weisner, Prof.Sisir Roy, 
Prof. Apoorva D. Patel, Prof. K L Sebastian.
All participants appreciated the unique approach of the centre to integrate 
different disciplines of engineering, science, and humanities. Based on the 
expert feedback the proposed curriculum was modified.
International Workshop on Computational Materials Design and Engineering
February 08-10, 2013
The recent advances in the development of novel materials and coexistence of 
multifunctionality in the same system may exhibit potential for novel devices 
based on new concepts and engineering over conventional materials. The 
conventional approach for such developments relies on time consuming

iterative processes to address the right solution. This demands new modeling 
methodologies to understand and engineer the material’s properties at 
atomic, molecular and crystal levels. This workshop aimed at focusing new 
approaches in conjunction with multi-scale modelling which allows 
mimicking real systems to handle the challenges in designing novel materials 
for applications. The valuable suggestions from invited experts were used to 
envisage and design a relevant academic programme, in accordance with the 
multidisciplinary approach at IIT Jodhpur. The major topics of discussions 
were as follows:
 Materials design through experiments and simulations 
 Electronic Structure Theory 
 Spectroscopy of Complex Materials 
 Thermoelectrics 
 Hydrogen Storage 
 Functional Nanomaterials
The participants wereProf. Indarnil Manna, Prof. G. P. Das, Prof. Shobhana 
Narsimhan , Prof. Sushil Auluck, Prof. Dilip G. Kanhere, Prof. Abhishek 
Singh, Dr. Vijay Kumar, Prof. Manoj Harbola, Prof Priya Mahadevan, Prof. 
Indra Dasgupta, Porf. Charles Patterson, Dr S. Pannala, Dr. David J Singh, 
Prof G P Srivastava, Prof Arun Bansil, Prof Richard Martin, Prof Shiraishi 
Kenji, Prof. Dr. Arno Schindlmayr, Prof. Mattias Klintenberg, Prof. Seiji 
Yunoki, Prof. Hiroshi Mizuseki, Dr. Sandro Scandolo, Dr. Luca Ghiringhelli.
Innovation and Incubation Centre
Established in August 2011, the Innovation and Incubation Centre, under the 
name 
I.D.E.A.S. 
(Innovators 
Destination 
for 
Entrepreneurship 
and
Amelioration of Society), of IIT Jodhpur seeks to provide a continuous 
momentum towards promoting innovation in entrepreneurship. For the next 
ten years, I.D.E.A.S. has entered into collaboration with the State Government 
of Rajasthan, which has agreed to partially fund the incubatees.
The Innovation and Incubation Centre of IIT Jodhpur seeks to provide 
continuous momentum toward promoting innovation in entrepreneurship. 
IIT Jodhpur seeks to be an academic incubator and provides support to 
students in developing business ideas that address the unattended issues 
prevalent in our society. It aims to provide young talented students with a 
platform where they can bring forward their ideas in the field of science and

Sl. No. Name of the Course Conducting Faculty
1. Mathematics-I Dr. Kiran Hiremath
2. Physics-I Dr. V. Narayanan
3. Physics-II Dr. V. Narayanan
4. Mathematics-II Dr. Kiran Hiremath,
Dr. Puneet Sharma
5. Chemistry Dr. Rakesh Sharma
6. Engg. Economics Dr. Pratibha Bhargava
7. Introduction to Biology Dr. Sushmita Jha,
Dr. Amit Mishra
8. Engg. Graphics Dr. P. R. Chakraborty,
Barun Pratiher
9. Probability & Statistics Dr. Vivek Vijayvargiya,
Dr. Venkat Appal Raju
10. Advanced Mechanics of Solids Prof. Rakesh Saxena,
Dr. Bimal Roy
engineering and showcase the same to industry experts to get their assistance 
in developing a model. The centre intends to nurture young minds and help 
their ideas gain ground through channelized guidance and mentorship by 
industry experts. We wish to give engineering students and industry 
practitioners an opportunity to interact and build a community of innovative 
potential.
Short-Term Courses
IIT Jodhpur conducts several short courses for the students during summer 
and winter breaks. As the institute receives visiting experts from a wide 
variety of background, the students derive benefit of such visiting and serving 
faculties by exposing themselves to different areas of academics and research 
by means of these short courses. Following are the summer and winter short 
courses that were delivered during 2012-13:
Summer Courses

11. Computer Networks Dr. Venkata Ramana
12. Physics-III Dr. S. Banerjee,
Dr. A. Alok
13. Introduction to Electrical Engg. Dr. Vivek Dixit,
Dr. Neeraj Gupta
14. Information Theory Dr. Anupam Gupta
15. Electric Stress Dependent Behaviour of Dielectrics Prof. Ravindra Arora
16. Optoelectronics Dr. Mahesh Kumar
17. Principles of Quantum Mechanics Dr. P. Manikandan
18. Introduction to Numerical Heat and Fluid flow Dr. P. R. Chakraborty
19. Modeling and Analysis of Biological Complex
Systems Dr. Ganesh Bagler
20. History and Philosophy of Science Dr. K J George
21. Solar Resource Assesment and Forecasting Dr. B Ravindra
22. Introduction to Art and Science of Negotiation Dr. Harinipriya
23. Technical Communication Dr. Ansu Louis,
Dr. Vidya
24. Research Methodology Dr. S. Banerjee,
Dr. K. J. George
25. System Design and Integration Lab Dr. Rahul Chhibber,
Dr. Ganesh Bagler
26. Enery-Water Nexus Dr. Anand Krishnan
Plapally
Sl. No. Name of the Course Conducting Faculty
1. Technical Communications Dr. Ansu Louis
2. Research Methodology Dr. Sushmita Jha
3. Cloud Computing Dr. Amey P. Ghokhle
4. Basics of Sustainable Development Dr. Vittarino Belpoliti
5. Noise and Vibration: A Practical Approach Dr. Neil Popplewell
6. Multivariate Data Analysis Dr. Herb Debban
Winter Courses

congruity between technology, society, and humanity. Beyond the
Weekly Academic Seminars
constrained frame of the graduate curriculum, the institute envisions the 
holistic development of students along with their attaining of a deeper insight 
into manifold academic disciplines. The institute has been conducting three 
kinds of weekly academic seminars. In order to provide students exposure to 
cutting edge research, recent developments in industrial and business sectors, 
social work, arts and culture, the institute conducts Institute Seminars by 
renowned professionals and experts in different fields. To promote 
interdisciplinary research and interaction between and among faculty 
members and students, the faculty members present and discuss their 
research interests at weekly faculty seminars. And to provide students and 
faculty a platform to present their insights and recent academic activities, 
each CoE has its own weekly seminars.
Scholarship for Students
IIT 
Jodhpur 
awards 
Merit-Cum-Means 
(MCM) 
scholarship 
to 
the
undergraduate students belonging to General and OBC categories. The 
selection is based on both merit and parental income. Any student with a 
parental income of less than Rs. 4.5 lakhs per annum may be eligible for the 
scholarship. MCM scholarship involves full tuition fee waiver and an 
additional amount of Rs 1000/-per month. In the academic year 2011-2012
Students belonging to SC/ST categories are given, in addition to tuition fee 
waiver, exemption from hostel dues (both mess and room charges) and a 
pocket allowance of Rs. 250/-per month. In the academic year 2011-2012, 30 
MCM scholarships were awarded in the GEN/OBC category, and 8 in the 
SC/ST category. And 24 free tuitionships were also awarded.
Foreign Language Training
With support from the French Embassy, IIT Jodhpur offers a zero credit 
compulsory course in French language for first year students. Furthermore, 
the state-of-the-art language lab of the institute could now help students in 
learning major foreign languages.

Roll Name of student Institute / Project Title
No. Organization
J09001 Abhinav Dadhich Panasonic R&D Labs NFC based android app for
health care
J09002 Abhinav Piprotar Escorts Agri
Machinery, Faridabad Fatigue testing of components
UG2010
12001 Abhinav Panwar Hindustan Engine Components
Manufacturing Systems Engine Components
Aeronautics Limited, Manufacturing Systems
J09004 Abhishek Verma Panasonic R&D Labs Prototype development of
“NFC based Android
Application” for Healthcare
J09006 Akanksha Saran École Polytechnique
Fédérale De Lausanne,
Switzerland The Frugal FPGA: Design and
analysis of a resource efficient
FPGA architecture
J09007 Akash Deep University of Manitoba Multi Terminal HVDC
Control
J09009 Akshay
Harikumar Tata Johnson Control
Ltd., Chennai Time analysis of fragment
cutting process.
J09011 Amit Lonkar Motilal Oswal Asset
Management, Mumbai Optimisation in multi-asset
class portfolio
J09026 Amulya Sai, B. National Instruments,
Bangalore Automatic Inspection Of
Automated Clusters
Internships of Students
Summer internships provide opprotunities for students to gain experience in 
their discipline, determine if they have an interest in a aparticular career, and 
create a network of contacts. Internship is an integral part of curriculum for 
the pre-final year students, nevertheless, all B.Tech. and M.Tech. students are 
encouraged to take up internships to add to their educational experience. 
When students do an eight-week summer training in reputed organizations, 
in India or abroad, they learn newer skills and technology; adopt them in 
theory undergraduate projects and use them to bring a change and serve the 
community. In this way, the companies offering them internships also gain 
extensively due to the availability of novel perspectives, fresh ideas and 
specialized strengths and skill sets of the incoming students that are sure to 
augment the abilities of the company workforce.
In the 2012-13 many of our students were placed for summer internships in 
several reputed companies and for research projects in universities abroad. 
Some of our students participated in research projects in other IITs as well. 
Details of 2012-13 Summer Internships are as follow:

J09016 Ankit Gupta University of
Manitoba, Winnipeg Frequency response
characterization of Nafion
using electrostatic force
microscopy
J09019 Anurup Ganguli University of Western
Ontario, Canada Design and fabrication of
offshore Wind turbine and its
wind tunnel testing
J09020 Ashish Aseri DRDO, Defence
Laboratory, Jodhpur 3D Visualisation using VTK
J09022 Ashok Banjara Non Ferrous Materials
Technology
Development Centre
(NFTDC), Hyderabad Testing and analysis of die
cast copper rotor induction
motor
J09027 Bhaskar Puri Panasonic R&D Labs Scalable Distributed Water
Management System
J09029 Boobalan, G. Non Ferrous Materials
Technology
Development Centre
(NFTDC), Hyderabad Testing and Analysis of
Copper Rotor Induction
Motor
J09034 Gaurav Kumar Escorts Agri Fatigue testing of components
Machinery, and strain measurement
Knowledge during loading, Noise &
Management Centre, vibration testing of engine
Faridabad and tractor
J09035 Gaurav Siwach Nara Institute of
Technology, Japan Adaptive Robotic Clothing
Assistance
J09036 Gautam Bajaj Hi-Tech Robotics
Systemz Ltd, Autonomous Navigation
Using ROS
J09038 Govind Agarwal Nara Institute of
Technology, Japan Human Position Tracking
J09040 Gundre Vaibhav
Pralhad Advanced Systems
Laboratory, DRDO,
Hyderabad Thermal analysis of a diffuser
section
UG2010
12017 Hemant Verma IIT Roorkee Design and Development of
J09043 Jatin Goyal Fiat India Ltd. Analysis of Lean
Manufacturing System and
Production Line
J09044 Jatin Rustagi Panasonic R&D Labs Display prototype of water
classification
J09053 Kunal Chelani University of British
Columbia, Vancouver Analysis of Harmonics in DC
Smart Grid
J09054 Lakhan Singh
Jatav Thermax, Pune Generalised solar tracking
system of solar parabolic
trough
J09057 Manish Kumar
Jain National University of
Ireland, Maynooth Optimal Contention Window
for 802.11 Protocol

UG2010
11012 Manu Agarwal IIT Delhi Clustering on data points
satisfying (c,e) approximation
stability
J09061 Mohammed
Aquibuddin
Ahmed Non Ferrous Materials
Technology
Development Centre
(NFTDC), Hyderabad Testing, modeling and
analysis of three phase
Induction Motor
J09065 Nikita Chopra University of Western
Ontario, London
(Ontario) Algorithm development for
lung brachytherapy
J09069 Prafful Gupta IIT Bombay Design of Bandgap Voltage
Reference for ultra-low
supply voltage
J09070 Pranay Balar Pontiflex India Pvt.
Ltd., Bangalore Configuration Service of the
sign-up ad project
J09073 Prashant Shukla Non Ferrous Materials
Technology
Development Centre
(NFTDC), Hyderabad Analysis of high heat flux
transfer on tungsten mono-
blocks
J09074 Pratesh Jhari Panasonic R&D Labs Efficiency Analysis of Wind
catchers for Earth air Heat
Exchanger
J09075 Prem Raj University of
California, Merced Development of an
embedded system for
automation of HVAC
UG2010
11019 Prince Gupta Electronics For You,
New Delhi Designing Low-Cost AVR
UG2010 Rajat Jain North Central
11023 Railways, Agra
J09062 Rajni Yadav University of Ulster Tinnitus cancellation
algorithm
J09089 Rameshwar
Prasad Meghwal Non Ferrous Materials
Technology
Development Centre
(NFTDC), Hyderabad Daily activity tracking system
of employees of NFTDC
using expert system concept
UG2010
10007 Ravi Kiran
Godgu Centre for Artificial Spatio Temporal Datamining
J09025 Rishi Kalyan
Ayyer Motilal Oswal Asset
Management, Mumbai Optimized Portfolio Creation
UG2010
11027 Rishi Kumar Patratu Thermal Power Generation Techniques
J09084 Ruchi Toshniwal Nucleus Software,
Noida Data De-duplication Software
UG2010 Sachin Gupta Eicher Engines, Alwar Reduction in Tool Inventory

J09088 Satyesh Jha Panasonic R&D Labs Efficiency Analysis of
Windcatchers for Earth Air
Heat Exchangers
UG2010 Saurabh Santosh Bokaro Thermal Power Power Generation Training
11031 Plant, Bokaro
J09092 Shashank Kumar IIT Bombay Design and Implementation
of a Hardware In The Loop
[HILS] Simulator for Micro
Aerial Vehicles [MAV] using
Open Source Software
JSBSim.
UG2010 Snehlata Joshi IIT Bombay Bubble Size Measurement
J09097 Surendra
Choudhary Non Ferrous Materials
Technology
Development Centre
(NFTDC), Hyderabad Hydrogen Storage and
Sorption Cooling using Waste
Heat
J09099 Sushant Gaurav Nara Institute of
Technology, Japan Grouping People and
Recognizing their attributes
J09100 Syed Faizul Hai National Instruments,
Bangalore Created a Labview VI to
generate Chromaticity
diagram and XYY color space
(Summer Intern)
UG2010
12039 Tanmay Sethi The Energy &
Resources Institute,
New Delhi Solar Biomass Hybrid
Cooling Cum Power
Generation
J09102 Tokala Sai Teja Nucleus Software,
Noida Data Deduplication
UG2010
10005 Trivikram
Chaudhary Centre for Artificial Spatio-Temporal Data Mining
J09104 Vaibhav Jain National University of
Ireland, Maynooth Measuring Capture effect in
wireless networks
UG2010 Vasu Goenka Tata Motors Limited Wheel Alignment
J09016 Vinay Kumar University of
California, Merced
UG2010
10038 Vinith Vemana Centre for Artificial Spatio-Temporal Data Mining
UG2010
11044 Vivek Dubey Nuclear Power In-plant training
J09107 Vivek Sharma Innovation Labs, TCS,
Gurgaon Crowd Size Estimation using
Image Processing
J09109 Zubin Sortee Pontiflex India Ltd.
Bangalore Development of Help Module

Facilities
 Present Campus
o Academic Capmpus 
o Residential Area
 Permanent Campus 
 Computer Centre 
 Library 
 Laboratories 
 Health Centre 
 Sports Facilities 
 SC/ST and OBC Cell 
 Hindi Cell 
 Office Automation

Present Campus
Presently, the institute functions 
from a temporary campus at 
Ratanada, in Jodhpur, Rajasthan. 
The campus has three blocks, 
Administrative Block, Academic 
Block-I, and Academic Block-II. In 
addition 
to 
the 
major
administrative 
offices 
of 
the
institute, a few laboratories are 
situated in the Administrative 
Block. In Academic Block-I are located several laboratories, computer centre, 
and the library. Academic Block-II has several halls for lectures, tutorial 
rooms, language laboratory, and cabins for Ph.D. students. The campus also 
has mess facility for students. The institute has already procured all the basic 
facilities required for its effective functioning and is consistently in the course 
of further development.
Residential Area
The residential area of IIT Jodhpur is situated by the New Pali Road in the 
outskirts of Jodhpur city. The area is divided into several student hostels, 
residential apartments of the Director, faculty, and staff, VVIP guest house, 
visitors’ hostels etc. Round the clock security services keep the residential area 
safe and secure. A well-equipped health centre also functions here. In 
addition, the students enjoy facilities for both indoor and outdoor games at 
this area.
The residential area has a computer centre and all hostels are Wi-Fi enabled. 
And there is also a library, television rooms, and student activities centre to 
hosts several events. Moreover, the residential complex also houses several 
students-run clubs which nurture the creativity of students and initiate the 
celebration of several festivals. Also, one of the two student messes of IIT 
Jodhpur function here (the other one in the academic area). The mess offers 
good quality food at very affordable rates. The messes are regularly 
monitored by wardens to ensure hygiene and nutritional value.

The residential campus has a fully equipped visitors’ hostel which provides 
boarding and lodging facilities for all the institute’s guests, parents and 
guardians of students, and newly appointed faculty members. All rooms are 
air conditioned. The residential area has a branch of State Bank of India with 
an ATM counter. The institute has a bus service running between the 
Residential and Academic areas at regular intervals, exclusively for the 
students, faculty, and staff of the institute. And shops catering to various 
needs of the students, two general stores, one medical store, stationery, and a 
mobile phone accessories store operate in front of the residential area.
Permanent Campus
In the forthcoming years, the 
institute will be shifted to its own 
residential campus near Nagaur 
in Jodhpur. The government has 
acquired 872 acres of land for the 
institute and the construction of 
the 
boundary 
wall 
is 
being
completed, and so is the 33 KV 
electric substation. An MoU has 
been signed with Arid Forest Research Institute for designing and developing 
an urban forestry model for the institute. The institute has successfully 
completed the selection of the campus master planner. It is envisioned that 
the new campus of IIT Jodhpur would stand as a symbol of academic 
excellence while creating a multi-cultural ethos with centres such as an Eco 
Village, an Arts and Culture Centre and an International Inter-Cultural 
Activity Centre, all of which would contribute to a holistic development of its 
community.

Computer Centre
The institute has a computer centre, presently running on a gigabit LAN with 
1Gbps internet bandwidth. It provides all computing facilities for students 
and staff. There are several terminals running on Windows and GNU/Linux 
operating systems. The computer centre provides access to several licensed 
softwares like Matlab, Mathematica, Cadence, Mentor-Graphic, Ansys, 
PSCAD, Solidworks, orCad, etc. 802.11/b/g/n Wi-Fi is enabled in both the 
academic area and residential area, the computer centre hosts a high 
performance computing cluster for scientific research.
Computing Facilities
● Server E7-8837 processor 4*10 Core with 128 GB Ram (Fujitsu RX600 S6) – 4 
● Workstation E5-2640 processor 2*6 Core With 64 GB Ram (fujitsu Celsius
● MAC Pro 21” Desktop - 1 
● Printer ( HP Laserjet 9040dn) – 1
Online Services (Automation)
● Ph.D and M.Tech Admission 
● Transit hostel booking 
● Faculty leave 
● Student leave 
● Student Bonafide 
● Vehicle booking 
● Centralized authentication server (LDAP)

Network Facilities
● Gigabit Network switch (Cisco 2960-s) – 6 
● Internet access authentication
Library
The Library supports all teaching and research activities of the institute by 
facilitating- acquisition, organization and dissemination of knowledge 
resources, and also providing library & information services to IIT Jodhpur 
community at large. It is located on the ground floor in room nos. 1001 and 
1011, Academic Block I of the academic campus of IIT Jodhpur. The Library 
works under the guidance of the Institute’s Library Committee.
Library Collection
Books: The library has rapidly growing collection of more than 10,000 
volumes of books (approx). These include the textbooks, reference & research 
materials.

Collection Collection Additions in Total collection
2012-13 (as on March 31, 2013)
Central Library 1561 7975
Book Bank 205 1986
GPRA Library 360 520
Total no. of books added during 2012-13 2126
Journals& Databases: The Library subscribes to a wide range of scholarly 
journals/databases from various sources, as detailed in Digital Library section 
of this document. More details of these resources are available on the library 
website. The Library also subscribes to some of the popular magazines and 
dailies.
Services and Facilities
Member Services: The library provides facilities and services to all registered 
students, faculties, staff members of IIT Jodhpur. Additionally, the library 
also provides services and facilities to visiting faculties to IIT Jodhpur. 
Assistance in locating reading material, orientation to new users is also 
provided by the Library staff.
Circulation Services: One of the major services that the library offers is 
circulation of books and other reading material among the users. All IIT 
Jodhpur faculty, staff and students are entitled to borrow reading material 
from library.
Reference & Information Service: The library houses a number of 
reference books and also has access to information resources in electronic 
form. Library staffs are always available for guidance and help with the 
reference material, and also for answering the related queries.
Inter Library Loan & Document Delivery Service: Library arranges for 
borrowing books and scholarly articles that are not available in the library, 
from other libraries in India. 
Course Reserves: The recommended textbooks by the faculties for different 
courses are available in the Course Reserves section. These books are for 
consultation in the library premises against the Identity Card. However, these 
are issued overnight during the examination period at IIT Jodhpur.

Current Awareness Service: Information about new arrivals of books and 
journals is made available on the library- website, catalogue and by way of 
an email newsletter sent periodically.
Book Bank Facility: The library has a special collection of textbooks for 
students belonging to SC/ST category, as per GoI rules. They are issued to 
the students, who can apply as per the announced schedule by the Book 
Bank student volunteers.
Online Catalogue: The library operations are completely computerized. 
Online catalogue can be accessed in both academic and residential 
campuses. It can be accessed at http://172.16.100.55:8081/newgelibctxt. 
The same software also functions as institutional repository.
Library Website:The library website (http://library.iitj.ac.in/) provides 
information about the services and facilities that can be availed and also acts 
as a gateway to a range of electronic resources including subscribed and open 
access.Indent forms for recommending books and journals for library are 
hosted on the library website.
Digital Library Facility: The library extension in room no. 1011 serves as 
the digital library with computer terminals facilitating access to various 
academic resources, viz., journals, databases etc. Some of the major 
electronic resources licensed by IIT Jodhpur Library are:
Journal resources:
 ACM Digital Library 
 American Chemical
Society
 American Institute of
Physics
 American Physical Society 
 Annual Reviews 
 ASME Digital Library 
 Elsevier’s Science Direct 
 IEL Online 
 IMechE 
 Institute of Physics 
 Nature Publishing Group 
 Optical Society of America 
 Royal Society of Chemistry

 Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 
 Project MUSE 
 Science Online 
 Society for Industrial & Applied Mathematics 
 Springer Link 
 Taylor & Francis 
 Wiley Online Library 
 Some miscellaneous titles from Cambridge University Press, Begell House,
Rinton Press, SAE, University of Manchester Press etc.
Fulltext Databases:
 JStor 
 EBSCO Academic Search 
 EBSCO Econlit
Scientometric Databases:
 Mathscinet 
 Scopus 
 SciFinder Scholar
Library Networks: IIT Jodhpur Library is a member of professional library 
networks like Indian National Digital Library for Engineering, Science & 
Technology (INDEST), INFormation & LIBraries NETwork (INFLIBNET), and 
DEveloping Libraries NETwork (DELNET). As a member the library benefits 
in terms of subscriptions of journal resources and inter library loans and 
resource sharing.
Laboratories
Right from its inception, IIT Jodhpur has been striving to achieve an ideal 
synthesis of teaching and research. This spirit reflects most clearly in the 
variety and scope of the laboratories the institute has established so far. Now 
the institute has a number of state-of-the-art laboratories and research centers 
trying to elevate students from minimalist academic concerns to the 
inquisitive world of scientific arena. These labs and research centers help 
well-trained faculty members and students work for s better future by 
supplementing and improving existing technologies and bodies of 
knowledge, using competence, creativity, and imagination. To accomplish

such goals, IIT Jodhpur has already made collaborations with several leading 
academic and research centers across the world.
Advanced Manufacturing Laboratory
CAD Laboratory
The CAD Lab of the institute provides facilities for undergraduate students 
and faculty members to work with 2-D & 3-D design and analysis software 
for their academic and research work. The 3-D Modeling Software and FE 
Analysis softwares available in the CAD lab include:
 
CATIA
 
SolidWorks
 
ANSYS
CAM Laboratory
In the CAM Lab undergraduate students learns to control machine tools and 
related machinery in the manufacturing of work pieces with help of computer 
programing and software. The CAD model of object is prepared in 3D 
modelling software and then its FE analysis is done with help of Analysis 
software and then manufactured using CNC programing and CNC machines. 
With help of CNC machines the object is manufactured with lesser time with 
higher dimensional accuracy with optimum uses of material, energy and cost. 
The CAM lab of the institute is equipped with following machines:

 
EMCO Concept Mill 250
 
EMCO Concept Mill 105
 
EMCO Concept Turn 105
In addition, a rapid prototyping machine based on the Fused Deposition 
Modelling was acquired for the CAD/CAM lab from Stratasys Inc., USA. It 
works seamlessly with STL files generated from a number of CAD software 
programs. First year students of all engineering branches have been taught to 
create STL files of the product designed such that 3D model in ABS material 
can be printed for purposes of visualization and design communication. It is 
proposed to conduct workshops and training programs for external industry 
participants using this technology in the next academic year.
Central Workshop
Central workshop is a facility where the students are trained to convert raw 
material into finished products. Here, the students learn about various 
manufacturing processes such as metal cutting, metal forming, metal casting, 
and metal joining. The central workshop is equipped with different types of

welding machines which aid students in understanding the basic welding 
processes and in utilising the facilities for fabrication works for academic 
purposes.
The following are the machines and equipments available in central 
workshop:
1. Welding fume extraction down draft
table
2. Multi process welding equipment 
3. Portable single phase MIG/MAG 
4. AC/DC welding equipment 
5. MIG/MAG welding equipment 
6. Treadle operated shearing Machine 
7. Hand operated Folding Machine 
8. Kaizen Muffle Furnace 
9. Hand operated Jeeny or Burying
Machine
10. Motorized Circle cutting Machine 
11. Hand operated Circle cutting Machine 
12. Hydraulic shearing Machine 
13. Portable Heating Plant 
14. Portable hardening plant 
15. Forging Heating Plant 
16. Aluminium Melting Plant 
17. Fitting Table 
18. Mould Making Facility 
19. Portable Tool Grinder

Biosciences and Neuroscience laboratory
The Advanced Biosciences and Neuroscience laboratory is a part of the center 
of excellence in biologically inspired systems science (BISS). The goal of this 
laboratory is to provide cellular and molecular investigative tools for UG and 
PG teaching and research in neuroscience. We utilize cell culture studies 
along with molecular biology, biochemistry and microscopy approaches to 
elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying molecular and cellular 
interactions underlying inflammation and repair. Inflammation is a key 
component of many diseases including traumatic brain injury, cancer, 
multiple sclerosis, stroke, asthma, Parkinson’s disease and Alzheimer’s 
disease. Inflammation is characterized by accumulation and proliferation of 
innate immune cells. This is followed by clearance of dead cells and cellular 
debris along with enhanced expression of molecular mediators called 
cytokines and chemokines, which cause migration and proliferation of 
immune cells and may even lead to cell death. Understanding the 
mechanisms by which inflammation occurs, and the molecular mediators 
involved in this process, is necessary for identification of potential therapeutic 
targets.
Biomolecular Information Processing laboratory
The 
laboratory 
is 
involved 
in 
the
understanding of information processing by 
various kinds of biomolecules and related 
synthetic molecules. The process involves in 
using a single molecule first and then a 
group of molecule on a given interface. The 
interaction among the molecules in a given 
external stimuli will help us understanding 
the communication among them.

Chemical Biology Laboratory
Research themes:
Organisms at the cellular level possess a well-established protein quality 
control mechanism which the lab team is trying to understand at present. The 
role of E3 ubiquitin ligases was reported in such mechanisms so far. Our 
laboratory is dedicated to a qualitative research in the field of protein quality 
control mechanisms. We have recently found that a HECT domain containing 
E3 ubiquitin ligase E6-AP helps in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis diseases 
suppression through its association with the misfolded protein aggregates 
formed by SOD1 mutants. Such findings support that an E3 ligase can have a 
capability to clear the misfolded protein aggregation. However, while 
appreciating the incredible efficiency of cellular systems, we must recognize 
the crucial role of chaperones which are supposed to work preferentially 
compared to E3 ubiquitin ligases in order to refold the misfolded proteins, 
and hence conserving the energy utilized during the translation of those 
proteins. Various examples made us think that we could explore the role of 
both the chaperones and E3 ubiquitin ligases in the clearance of misfolded 
proteins. Therefore, now we are working not only with E3 ubiquitin ligases 
but also with the chaperones and even in their functional association to confer 
an efficient quality control mechanism to the cell.
Chemistry Laboratory
The core objective of the 
chemistry laboratory of 
IIT Jodhpur is to train 
students 
in 
scientific

methods that would solve real problems at the frontier of our understanding 
of the matter. This is a multi-use laboratory and provides a number of 
resources to assist undergraduate, graduate and PhD students in planning 
their professional careers after completing their academic program at IIT 
Jodhpur.
This laboratory maintains a 
broad spectrum of state-of-
the-art 
instrumentation
including basic laboratory set 
up (for organic, inorganic, 
organometallic and material 
synthesis), Nitrogen, Oxygen 
and 
LPG gas 
line, 
Inert
atmosphere boxes, vacuum 
line work, fume hood pH, 
conductivity, 
BOD, 
COD,
meters, Rotary evaporator, Vacuum pumps, centrifuges, High pressure 
reactor system, Chiller, microbalances, Orbital Shaker, GC, HPLC and 
Radleys ready reactor. In the academic year 2012-2013, the lab procured 
equipments such as Polarimeter, Melting point Instrument, Solar Simulator, 
Digital Titrator, Kugalrohr, Electrochemical work stations, and Battery 
analysers.
Control / DSP / Microprocessor Laboratory
The lab provides software and hardware infrastructure for carrying out 
experiments in the field of Control Systems, Microprocessor and DSP. 
Broadly, the lab includes the following experimental setup:
a. Control Systems
1. Ball & Beam System from Quanser 
2. Magnetic Levitation System from Quanser 
3. Inverted Pendulum System from Quanser 
4. Softwares include Scilab / Matlab
b. DSP Lab Equipments
c. Microprocessor Labs

Digital Language Laboratory
The Digital Language Laboratory provides resources, facility, and support for 
foreign language instruction and learning to the entire student community of 
IIT Jodhpur. The lab is the multilingual computing and assessment center of 
the institute. The lab team explores and implements methods through which 
multimedia technology renders learning a foreign language a more authentic 
experience. Here, for language learning purposes one could seek recourse to 
most advanced technologies including the Internet and interactive video, 
audiovisual techniques, multi-modal iconic approach, and speech recognition. 
Some other exercises include listening and comprehension, grammar-based 
exercises, placement solutions, and mastery tests. The main features of this 
state-of-the-art facility include top-rated Smart Class Symposium LL from 
Robotel and New Dynamic English Learning Program from Dyned

International. All the facilities at the Digital Language Laboratory are 
proficiency-oriented and standard-based, and nurture the 
students’
enthusiasm for gaining global exposure and proficiency in a foreign language.
Electronic Circuit Laboratory
In this laboratory the students make and test their analog and digital circuits 
by using all kinds of circuit components like diode, transistor, opamps, and 
clocks. The lab has following equipments:
1. Arbitrary Function Generator from Agilent 
2. Digital Oscilloscope from Agilent 
3. Programmable Power Supply from Scientific 
4. 6 1/2 BIT DMM from Agilent
Electro Mechanical Energy Conversion Laboratory
In 
order 
to 
familiarize
students 
to 
Electrical
Machines 
properties 
&
characteristics, IIT Jodhpur 
has 
established 
“Electro
Mechanical 
Energy
Conversion Laboratory” and

has continually been developing the potential of its lab facility. In this lab, 
state-of-the-art “Electrical Engineering” facilitates the students to empower 
their potentials by familiarizing themselves with the fundamental of electro-
mechanical energy conversion process, including several practical & 
industrial applications of machines in true applicable environment. This lab 
occupies conventional as well as modern equipments to fulfil the basic and 
modern technological requirements with continual developing efforts.
Renewable Energy Laboratory
To resolve most daunting 
challenge of this world—
energy needs—and also 
our 
nation’s 
heavy
reliance on fossil fuels, 
Renewable 
Energy
Laboratory 
(REL)
promotes rigorous and 
objective 
empirical
research at IIT Jodhpur 
on 
issues 
related 
to
energy and environment. 
REL focuses on designing, testing, and disseminating renewable and efficient 
energy system. The mission of REL is to help these technologies to realize 
their full potential to contribute to environmentally sustainable development 
in industrial and developing countries. In the renewable energy field, expert 
faculty and students at this Laboratory are currently striving to create an 
innovative system to efficiently harness energy from sunlight and wind 
power. Recently, a work on solar and wind system for household 
development has been planned and our research effort at REL draws on 
ongoing work in variety of fields, including energy engineering, and 
environmental risk analysis. REL has computer interfaced systems and 
approximately 30 students can work at a time. Students are the greatest 
resource of REL and IIT Jodhpur has made substantial commitment to the 
area of renewable energy and been providing all required resources to 
execute a viable plan and innovative research at REL. One aspect of the 
evolution of REL is the development of collaborative partnership with other 
academic and industrial groups. In the near future, it will be a hub for

training and public-private sector collaboration. Recently, the lab has started a 
consultancy project, with Panasonic R & D India Pvt Ltd, on the prototyping 
of microbial fuel cells. In addition, the lab has started work on data collection, 
interpretation, and analysis of PV power plants less than 5 MW in Rajasthan 
and Gujarat.
Equipment
1. Wind power of 2KW Charge controller ~12V, Synchronous generator
with permanent magnets ~12V, Lamp board ~12V, Off grid inverter etc .
2. PEM Fuel cell Fuel cell with DC converter, Electronic load, Metal hydride
storage cell, Electrolyser, 200W/20V/10A.
3. Advanced Photovoltaics Solar module simulation model 23V/2A, Solar
module with solar altitude emulator, Solar charge controller 12/24V, 6A, 
Solar accumulator 12V, 7Ah, Off grid inverter 230V, 275VA etc.
4. Combined RF/DC Sputtering Unit for Coatings Applications
Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer Laboratory
At Fluid Mechanics Laboratory students learn:
 
Analyses and evaluation of experimental data
 
Comparison between theoretical models and experimental data
 
How to design a fluid mechanical and heat transfer system e.g. a 
piping system considering various technical aspects, heat exchanger, 
thermal energy storage, receiver, wind catcher, volumetric air receiver.
In addition to the above, this laboratory aims at generating innovative ideas 
in students by promoting the design of experiments and small scale projects. 
At present in the fluid mechanics laboratory are conducted experiments on 
losses in pipes (smooth/rough) and fittings (e.g. valves, bends), comparison 
between different flow meters, particle image velocimetry technique, Hot-
wire anemometer, labscale sub-sonic wind tunnel for- pressure distribution 
around a cylinder/air-foil, lift and drag balance, boundary layer 
development, weather monitoring. Furthermore the lab provides training on 
standard software, such as, CFAST for fire simulation.

Currently the Heat Transfer Laboratory is equipped with the demonstration 
of various thermometry techniques, heat exchange system, ventilation system, 
Natural and forced convection system, heat conduction unit for different 
materials, lab and industrial-scale solar water heater system, and thermal 
radiation unit. All these equipment are installed with respective software.
For testing, calibration and research purpose in these laboratories, various 
equipments, such as, Laser Doppler Velocimeter with Particle Analyzer, 
pressure and temperature calibration, blower with variable flow, pressure 
transducers, differential pressure transducers, turbine test rig, turbo-machine 
test rig, IC engine test rig etc. are being procured.
Moreover, multi-purpose test set up is being indigenously designed and the 
components / sub-systems involved are being fabricated locally. This system 
aims at investigation and evaluation of solar thermal sub-systems such as 
volumetric air receiver, thermal energy storage, air-water heat exchange 
systems and their simultaneous operation. Devices such as earth air heat 
exchange system, wind catcher, and air-cooled heat exchange systems are 
being fabricated and tested for certain applications.
Material Testing and Solid Mechanics
The material testing lab of the institute provides facilities to test samples of 
different types of materials to find out their mechanical properties like 
modulus of elasticity, tensile and compressive strength, stress strain curve, 
bending properties, hardness etc. The lab is equipped with following test 
equipments:

1. Universal testing Machine 5-50 kN 
2. Rockwell Tester 
3. Brinell Tester 
4. Vickers Tester 
5. Poldi Hardness Tester 
6. Portable hardness tester 
7. Material Testing and Solid Mechanics
Materials Analysis Laboratory
The research focuses on the 
development of novel materials 
for 
different 
applications
including materials for energy 
generation and storage. The 
current 
work 
includes 
the
development 
of 
solution
processable 
CIGS 
compound
semiconductor 
materials 
for
solar 
cell 
applications 
and
transition metal oxide based materials for lithium ion batteries and 
supercapacitor applications. The laboratory is equipped with synthesis of 
bulk and thin films techniques such as sputtering, sol-gel process assembly 
etc and numerous characterization techniques such as X-ray diffraction, 
Scanning electron microscope, Optical spectroscopic techniques, LCR meter, 
ferroic measurement system for bulk samples etc.
In addition, the group is also focusing on the development of multifunctional 
materials for different applications such as solar selective coatings, ferroic 
materials for high frequency absorbing system, and magnetic particles for 
different applications."
The laboratory is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities to carry out thermal 
analysis, electrochemical analysis, surface morphology studies, separation 
techniques for chemicals, electrical conductivity measurement devices, glove 
box etc.

Microscopy Laboratory
The Microscopy Laboratory at IIT Jodhpur is located in Academic block 1, 
Room Number 1107. This burgeoning laboratory is committed to procuring 
all specific Equipment and is about to gain the level of state-of-the-art 
laboratories at IIT Jodhpur. Experienced faculty nurtures students’ 
enthusiasm about the morphological analysis of biological samples and also 
assists them to operate scientific instruments. Currently, this laboratory 
houses different microscopes and a number of common pieces of sample 
preparation equipment.
Multimedia Laboratory
The Media Laboratory provides facilities to carry out work related to E-
learning, image processing, and computer vision. The thrust areas of research 
in this lab are: Semantic analysis of video/image content, video surveillance, 
human motion analysis, document image analysis, content based image 
retrieval etc. E-learning related activities include video recording, audio-video 
digitization, video editing, etc. In the academic year 2011-2012, a research on 
Indian sign language recognition using Kinect has been initiated.
Equipments: 
Scanners: Book Drive Mini, UMAX Powerlook. Cameras: Sony 177PD, Sony 
Camcorder, Cannon 500D VCR: Sony DSR 45AP Tripods: Manfrotto, iMac.

Networking Technologies Laboratory
Networking Technologies Laboratory has been started functioning in the 
Academic Year 2011-2012. It aims at enabling undergraduate and graduate 
students, who pursue their interest in the area of computer networks, to 
understand the concepts of computer networks and work with contemporary 
networking equipment in a realistic setting. In addition, the lab aims at 
providing necessary infrastructure to carry out research activities on 
advanced topics, such as wireless mesh networks, sensor networks, 
communication on power lines, from computer networks.
Proposed Activities:
 Prototyping of networking hardware (Example, Ethernet switch, IPV4
router etc) using NetFPGA.
 Developing packet processors using Click router modular software
 Establishing infrastructure for the mini-Internet, single-hop wireless
networks, multi-hop wireless mesh and sensor networks, power line 
communication networks, home phone line networks.
 Studies related to the performance analysis of various protocols over
on different network configurations.
 Development of novel routing algorithms, transport layer mechanisms,
and services for next generation networks.
 Setting up planet-lab infrastructure (which will essentially become part
of the global distributed computing platform created over the Internet 
by connecting over 500+ sites). This allows the students and 
researchers not only to understand the traffic patterns on the Internet 
but also to develop new technologies/applications on the Internet for 
distributed storage, networking mapping, peer-to-peer systems, 
content distribution service, and cloud computing.

Physics Laboratory
The mission of the Physics laboratory at IIT Jodhpur is to provide students 
with experiential knowledge in basic physics. This laboratory has state-of-the-
art facilities including specific equipments and is currently offering different 
experiments in Mechanics, Waves, Electricity, Magnetism, and Optics. Now 
the lab has facilities for experimenting with Speed of Light, Zeeman Effect, 
and Michelson Interferometer.
Power Electronics Laboratory
The 
power 
electronics
laboratory 
is 
used 
for
undergraduate 
studies 
and
research in the area of power 
electronics 
based 
power
conversion 
systems, 
control
systems 
and 
drives. 
The
laboratory facilitates for faculty 
and 
students 
to 
conduct
research in the areas power
converters and AC/DC micro-grid. The laboratory is equipped with state-of-
art test and measurement instruments, converters, power supplies and 
programming boards.

Major Equipments:
1. High Precision power Analyzer –YOKOGAWA WT3000. 
2. DSO- Tektronix 200MHz (DPO 2024) and 1GHz (DPO 4104B). 
3. Function Generator-Tektronix AFG 3021B. 
4. Power Supply: 0-30V, 1A; 0-32V, 3A; 0-32, 10A. 
5. Three phase inverter drive. 
6. Three phase inverter stacks. 
7. DC-DC converters. 
8. Differential currents Probes. 
9. Current clamps. 
10. Isolation Transformers. 
11. FPGA training kits and programming boards.
Robotics Laboratory
IIT Jodhpur has an advanced robotics laboratory for PG/UG education and 
research.
The infrastructure includes the following:
1. Vicon Motion Tracking System 
2. Mobile Manipulator comprising of Barret WAM ARM mounted on a
PowerBot Mobile robot platform
3. Pioneer P3-DX mobile robots - 10 units 
4. Turtlebot 
5. Wheel Chair

6. Force Plate 
7. Infrastructure for Mobile Robotics - Navigation, Path-planning, SLAM 
8. Dynamic and Kinematic Control problem, Redundancy Resolution,
Inverse Kinematics of Manipulators and Mobile Manipulators, Visual 
Servoing
9. GAIT Analysis and Robot Assisted Rehabilitation
Solar Radiation Laboratory
The Ministry of New and 
Renewable Energy (MNRE) 
has selected the IIT Jodhpur 
campus site as one of their 
solar radiation centers. Solar 
radiation 
measurement
(Global 
and 
Direct),
Humidity, 
Ambient
temperature, 
Rain 
gauge
and 
wind 
speed
measurement are carried out 
at this center and the data is 
transmitted via a satellite 
link to the MNRE nodal 
center C-WET in Chennai. 
The 
instruments 
in 
this
laboratory are powered by a
couple of solar panels. The data collected from this center enables the solar 
resource assessment required for the setting up of solar thermal and solar 
photovoltaic power plants as outlined in the Jawaharlal Nehru National Solar 
Mission (JNNSM).
Instrumentation and Communication Laboratory
The mission of Instrumentation and Communication Laboratory is to provide 
platform for UG and PG students on research and hands-on learning in 
Measurement and Automation Technology. The state-of-the-art facilities at

this laboratory offer innovative research opportunities in the astronomical 
space of communication and real time measurement technology. The 
experienced Lab team nurtures students' talent in research and offers an 
opportunity for developing sophisticated measurement, test, control systems, 
data analysis system and next generation communication technologies.
Students also develop theoretical and practical competence in (i) building 
baseband communication circuits, (ii) the application of NI LabVIEW 
graphical programming software, (iii) the PXI based NI RF/Wireless 
measurement stand, (iv) evaluating NI WSNs and LabVIEW software, 
adjusting a software-defined radio system, measuring the parameters of 
studied antennas and (v) the operation of analog modulation schemes.
NI-Lab contains software and hardware subsystems which enable rapid 
prototyping and development of embedded systems for various applications. 
Currently, this lab constitutes the following setups:
 NI ELVIS based Communication Systems and Theory Teaching Stand 
 Large MIMO Stand for Spectral, Channel Efficiency Studies and New
Standard Development
 Protocols Stand for WLAN, WiMAX, GPS, RFID, Zigbee, GSM, CDMA,
WCDMA, Bluetooth
 FPGA-enabled Software Defined Radio Stand for Custom
Communication Scheme Development and Research
 Basic Analog and Digital Communication Techniques Teaching Stand 
 Wireless Sensor Networks Stand 
 Signal Intelligence and Wireless Spectral Monitoring Stand 
 Wireless Prototype Characterization and Testing Stand 
 FPGA based protocol development for base-band studies and signal
processing
 VNA based Antenna Characterization Stand

 Fiber Optic Communication Stands 
 Network Based Manufacturing 
 USRP (Universal Software Radio Peripheral) based wireless
communication system for physical layer design, record and playback, 
signal intelligence, algorithm validation and more.
 Network Communication and Manufacturing Control Stand
After three years of its formation, this lab has contributed immensely to the 
learning and research activities at IIT Jodhpur. Communications and 
Networking Lab, Intelligent Instrumentation, System Analysis Techniques 
and Bio-Sensors courses are being offered through this lab for both graduate 
and undergraduate students. The lab has provided the right hardware and 
software tools for many industrial consultancy projects, including the 
development of DRM/DRM+ IP for digital radio standards, Link budget 
design for Marine environment, DRFM based Radar echo simulator and Blind 
Signal Demodulator. Other projects being done in the lab are development of 
affordable wireless video transmission systems, cognitive radio and Zigbee 
protocol development.
High Temperature Solar Thermal Laboratory
Six laboratories are being set-up under the MNRE funded project entitled as 
“Establishment of Center of Excellence in Solar Thermal Research and 
Education at IIT Jodhpur”. High Temperature Solar Thermal Laboratory is 
one of these specialized laboratories. The aim of this laboratory:
 Fundamental aspects of fluid flow and heat transfer related problems,
like, dust deposition
 Design and analysis of sub-systems for concentrated solar thermal
systems
Some of the sub-systems being designed and analyzed in this laboratory are:
 Open Volumetric Air Receiver for process heat applications 
 Compact heat exchanger 
 Solar Convective Furnace
This laboratory includes test facility, such as, Solar Air Tower Simulator 
(SATS) facility, advanced research grade equipment like Laser Doppler 
Velocimetry. SATS facility includes, open volumetric air receiver, thermal

energy storage, air-water heat exchanger and is being extended with solar 
convective furnace.

Health Centre
IIT Jodhpur provides round the clock health care facilities to students and 
institute staff members at the residential campus. The Health Centre has now 
three doctors and four supporting staff members. The institute also has tie-
ups with some hospitals in the city to cater to the medical needs of the 
students and staff. The Health Centre at the residential area has all the 
necessary infrastructure, facilities, and equipment needed for basic health 
care. Essential medicines are stocked and provided to patients undergoing 
treatment.
Health Centre coordinates and supervises the treatment of students, 
employees, and their dependents during hospitalization in other hospitals 
which are accredited to the institute to provide in-patient care. Health Centre 
arranges for ambulance on call during medical emergencies.
Health Centre extends its health care services on request to visitors of the 
institute during their stay in transit hostels in the residential area. Under 
emergency circumstances medical services are also extended to the residents 
at the campus who do not belong to IIT community. Patient records, details of 
medicine procurement/disbursement, assets, equipment of Health Centre etc. 
are all computerized. The institute is looking forward to procure facilities for 
some common emergency health situations such as ECG machine, ambulance, 
etc.
Sports Facilities
The institute provides facilities for sports and games at four places: hostel 
premises, academic campus, Vidyashram playground, and JNVU new 
campus. Also, the institute has arranged conveyance for those students who 
wish to go to Vidyasham playground and JNVU new campus. Further, a 
gymnasium at the residential area functions for the students.
SC/ST and OBC Cell
IIT Jodhpur has created the SC/ST and OBC Cell for ensuring the proper 
utilization and adaptation of reservation policies and guidelines issued by the 
Government of India. The Cell has also been entrusted with work related to 
grievances received from SC/ST and OBC employees and students. The Cell 
also needs to communicate relevant information to the Ministry of Human

Hindi Cell
The Hindi cell of IIT Jodhpur aims to promote the use of Hindi as a medium 
of official communications and personal relations. The goal of the cell is to 
reach out to a wider audience and to motivate the IIT Jodhpur community to 
develop the basic language skill sets in Hindi. It also encourages and assists 
the students to conduct various competitions and activities related to Hindi 
language and literature.
Office Automation
The Office Automation Cell of the institute takes care of the IIT website, CoE 
websites, web pages of faculty members, and so on. The mission of the Office 
Automation division is to render all office procedures automated so their 
timely completion could be ensured and account keeping would become 
simpler and easier. The institute has already automated procedures for 
booking transit hostel; faculty, staff, and students leave; vehicle booking for 
official purposes; and bona fide certificate for students.

Scholalry Activities
 Invited Lectures 
 Publications in Academic Journals 
 Conference Presentations and Publications 
 Faculty Members& Areas of Research Interest

Invited Lectures
1. Shree 
Prakash 
Tiwari: 
Keynote 
Speech: 
"Introduction 
to
Microelectronics & VLSI", in Short Term Training Programme on 
"Advance Trends in VLSI", June 11 - 16, 2012, JIET Jodhpur, India.
2. Kshema Prakash: “Changing Roles and Responsibilities of Library &
Information Professionals in the Knowledge Society”, in UGC 
Sponsored Refresher Course in Library & Information Science, 
December 06-08, 2012, Jai Narayan Vyas University, Jodhpur, India.
3. Kshema Prakash: “Library 2.0” Web 2.0 Applications in Libraries”, in
UGC Sponsored Refresher Course in Library & Information Science, 
December 06-08, 2012, Jai Narayan Vyas University, Jodhpur, India.
Publications in Academic Journals
Centre of Excellence on Biologically-inspired Systems Science
[1] 
N. Garg, N. Bieler, T. Kenzom, M. Chhabra, M. Ansorge-
Schumacher, and S. Mishra, “Cloning, sequence analysis, expression 
of Cyathus bulleri laccase in Pichia pastoris and characterization of 
recombinant laccase.,” BMC Biotechnol., vol. 12, no. 1, p. 75, Jan. 2012.
[2] 
A. Louis, “Transgression and Oedipal Politics in Philip Roth’s 
SABBATH'S THEATER,” Explic., vol. 70, no. 2, pp. 87–91, Apr. 2012.
[3] 
D. Chhangani, N. Jana, and A. Mishra, “Misfolded Proteins 
Recognition 
Strategies 
of 
E3 
Ubiquitin 
Ligases 
and
Neurodegenerative Diseases,” Mol. Neurobiol., vol. 47, no. 1, pp. 302–
312, 2013.
[4] 
D. Chhangani, A. Joshi, and A. Mishra, “E3 Ubiquitin Ligases in 
Protein Quality Control Mechanism,” Mol. Neurobiol., vol. 45, no. 3, 
pp. 571–585, 2012.
[5] 
M. Sinha, B. Mukhopadhyay, and A. Sedrakian, “Hypernuclear 
matter in strong magnetic field,” Nucl. Phys. A, vol. 898, pp. 43–58, 
Jan. 2013.
[6] 
S. Sahu, S. Ghosh, K. Hirata, D. Fujita, and A. Bandyopadhyay, 
“Multi-level memory-switching properties of a single brain 
microtubule,” Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 102, no. 12, p. 123701, 2013.

[7] 
J. P. Hill, N. K. Subbaiyan, F. D’Souza, Y. Xie, S. Sahu, N. M. 
Sanchez-Ballester, G. J. 
Richards, T. Mori, 
and 
K. 
Ariga,
“Antioxidant-substituted tetrapyrazinoporphyrazine as a fluorescent 
sensor for basic anions,” Chem. Commun., vol. 48, no. 33, pp. 3951–
3953, 2012.
[8] 
S. Sahu, H. Oono, S. Ghosh, A. Bandyopadhyay, D. Fujita, F. Peper, 
T. Isokawa, and R. Pati, “On Cellular Automata rules of molecular 
arrays,” Nat. Comput., vol. 11, no. 2, pp. 311–321, 2012.
Centre of Excellence on Energy
[9] 
F. Roelofs, V. R. Gopala, L. Chandra, M. Viellieber, and a. Class, 
“Simulating fuel assemblies with low resolution CFD approaches,” 
Nucl. Eng. Des., vol. 250, pp. 548–559, Sep. 2012.
[10] Kamal Sharma, Harshit Kumar Khandelwal, Vivek Bhasin, R.
Chhibber, "Application of Ball Indentation Technique for Mechanical 
Properties Estimation of Bi-Metallic Weld", Advanced Materials 
Research, 585, 342-346, 2012.
[11] R. Chhibber, H. Singh, N. Arora, and B. K. Dutta, “Micromechanical
modelling of reactor pressure vessel steel,” Mater. Des., vol. 36, pp. 
258–274, Apr. 2012.
[12] R. 
Chhibber, 
Yogesh 
Kumar 
Singla, 
Bijan 
Kumar 
Dutta,
"Optimization of Process Parameters for Friction Welding of 
Bimetallic Welds", Advanced Materials Research, 585, 440-444, 2012.
[13] S. Jindal, R. Chhibber, and N. P. Mehta, “Investigation on flux design
for submerged arc welding of high-strength low-alloy steel,” Proc. 
Inst. Mech. Eng. Part B J. Eng. Manuf. , vol. 227 , no. 3 , pp. 383–395, 
Mar. 2013.
[14] Sandeep Jindal, R. Chhibber, N.P. Mehta, "Effect of Flux
Constituents and Basicity Index on Mechanical Properties and 
Microstructural Evolution of Submerged Arc Welded High Strength 
Low Alloy Steel", Materials Science Forum, 738-739, 242-246, 2013.
[15] B. Tiwari, A. Dixit, R. Naik, G. Lawes, and M. S. Ramachandra Rao,
“Dielectric and optical phonon anomalies near antiferromagnetic 
ordering 
in 
LaCrO3: 
A 
possible 
near 
room 
temperature
magnetodielectric system,” Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 103, no. 15, p. 
152906, 2013.

[16] B. Tiwari, M. S. R. Rao, A. Dixit, "Ground state electronic and
magnetic properties of LaCrO3 system", Advanced Materials Research, 
585, 274 - 278, 2012.
Mondal, V. Narayanan, I. Srivastava, N. Koratkar, J. Pasley, a. K. 
Sood, and G. R. Kumar, “Macroscopic Transport of Mega-ampere 
Electron Currents in Aligned Carbon-Nanotube Arrays,” Phys. Rev. 
Lett., vol. 108, no. 23, p. 235005, Jun. 2012.
W. M. Wang, Z. M. Sheng, S. Sengupta, P. Kaw, A. Das, and G. R. 
Kumar, “Direct observation of turbulent magnetic fields in hot, dense 
laser produced plasmas.,” Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A., vol. 109, no. 
21, pp. 8011–5, May 2012.
[19] P. K. Pandey, S. L. Gupta, V. Narayanan, and R. K. Thareja, “Air
plasma waveguide using pico-sec and nano-sec laser pulses,” Phys. 
Plasmas, vol. 19, no. 2, p. 023502, 2012.
[20] R. Rajeev, T. Madhu Trivikram, K. P. M. Rishad, V. Narayanan, E.
Krishnakumar, and M. Krishnamurthy, “A compact laser-driven 
plasma accelerator for megaelectronvolt-energy neutral atoms,” Nat 
Phys, vol. 9, no. 3, pp. 185–190, Mar. 2013.
[21] A. K. Plappally and J. H. Lienhard V, “Energy requirements for
water production, treatment, end use, reclamation, and disposal,” 
Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev., vol. 16, no. 7, pp. 4818–4848, Sep. 2012.
Obwoya, F. Nyongesa, A. Maiga, A. Soboyejo, S. Logothetis, and W. 
Soboyejo, “Porosity, Flow, and Filtration Characteristics of Frustum-
Shaped Ceramic Water Filters,” J. Environ. Eng., vol. 139, no. 7, pp. 
986–994, Oct. 2012.
[23] A. K. Plappally and J. H. Lienhard, “Costs for water supply,
treatment, end-use and reclamation,” Desalin. Water Treat., vol. 51, no. 
1–3, pp. 200–232, Jan. 2013.
[24] A. K. Plapally, Ankur Hasija, “Water Use and Related Costs at
Households in Western and Northern Parts of India,” J. Waste Water 
Treat. Anal., vol. 04, no. 03, 2013.
[25] B. Pratiher, “Tuning the Nonlinear Behaviour of Resonant MEMS
Sensors Actuated Electrically,” Procedia Eng., vol. 47, pp. 9–12, Jan. 
2012.

[26] S. K. Dwivedy and B. Pratiher, “Reply to the ‘Comments on
parametric instability of a cantilever beam with magnetic field and 
periodic axial load,’” J. Sound Vib., vol. 331, no. 6, pp. 1465–1466, Mar. 
2012.
[27] B. Pratiher and S. Bhowmick, “Nonlinear dynamic analysis of a
Cartesian manipulator carrying an end effector placed at an 
intermediate position,” Nonlinear Dyn., vol. 69, no. 1–2, pp. 539–553, 
2012.
Centre of Excellence on Information & Communication Technologies
[28] D. J. Leith, P. Clifford, V. Badarla, and D. Malone, “WLAN channel
selection without communication,” Comput. Networks, vol. 56, no. 4, 
pp. 1424–1441, Mar. 2012.
[29] D. Fulwani, B. Bandyopadhyay, and L. Fridman, “Non-linear sliding
surface: towards high performance robust control,” IET Control 
Theory Appl., vol. 6, no. 2, p. 235, 2012.
[30] S. Bag and G. Harit, “A survey on optical character recognition for
Bangla and Devanagari scripts,” Sadhana, vol. 38, no. 1, pp. 133–168, 
2013.
[31] P. K. Mishra, A. Mishra, K. S. Mishra, and A. K. Tripathi,
“Benchmarking 
the 
clustering 
algorithms 
for 
multiprocessor
environments using dynamic priority of modules,” Appl. Math. 
Model., vol. 36, no. 12, pp. 6243–6263, Dec. 2012.
[32] V. S. Chourasia, A. K. Tiwari, and R. Gangopadhyay, “Spectral
analysis of fetal heart sounds in healthy and pathological subjects.,” 
IJMEI, vol. 4, no. 2, pp. 125–139, 2012.
[33] P. K. Mishra, K. S. Mishra, A. Mishra, and A. K. Tripathi, “A
randomized scheduling algorithm for multiprocessor environments,” 
Parallel Process. Lett., vol. 22, no. 04, p. 1250015, Dec. 2012.
[34] V. S. Chourasia, A. K. Tiwari, Ranjan Gangopadhyay, "Adaptive
Neuro-Fuzzy inference system for antepartum antenatal care using 
phonocardiography", International Journal of Biomedical Engineering & 
Technology, vol. 8, no. 4, 357-374, 2012.
[35] V. 
S. 
Chourasia, 
A. 
K. 
Tiwari, 
Ranjan 
Gangopadhyay,
"Implementation of fetal e-health monitoring system through 
biotelemetry", International Journal of Electronic Healthcare, vol. 7, 
no. 1, 36-52, 2012.

P. Tongwa, D. K. Hwang, S. Singh, H. Wang, S. P. Tiwari, Y.-L. Loo, 
J.-L. Brédas, B. Kippelen, T. Timofeeva, and S. R. Marder, “Benzo[1,2-
b:6,5-b′]dithiophene(dithiazole)-4,5-dione 
derivatives: 
synthesis,
electronic properties, crystal packing and charge transport,” J. Mater. 
Chem. C, vol. 1, no. 7, p. 1467, 2013.
Barlow, S. R. Marder, and B. Kippelen, “Complementary-like 
inverters based on an ambipolar solution-processed molecular 
bis(naphthalene diimide)-dithienopyrrole derivative,” Org. Electron., 
vol. 13, no. 7, pp. 1166–1170, Jul. 2012.
Kippelen, and S. R. Marder, “Polynorbornenes with pendant 
perylene diimides for organic electronic applications,” Polym. Chem., 
vol. 3, no. 10, p. 2996, 2012.
Centre of Excellence on Systems Science
[39] B. Adhikari, “Vector space of linearizations for the quadratic two-
parameter matrix polynomial,” Linear Multilinear Algebr., vol. 61, no. 
5, pp. 603–616, Jul. 2012.
[40] A. Kumar, S. Adhikari, and P. Agrawal, “Generalized form of
optimal teleportation witnesses,” Quantum Inf. Process., vol. 12, no. 7, 
pp. 2475–2485, 2013.
[41] T. Pramanik, S. Adhikari, A. S. Majumdar, and D. Home, “Testing
nonlocality of single photons using cavities,” Phys. Lett. A, vol. 376, 
no. 4, pp. 344–348, 2012.
[42] N. Ganguly, S. Adhikari, and A. S. Majumdar, “Common
entanglement witnesses and their characteristics,” Quantum Inf. 
Process., vol. 12, no. 1, pp. 425–436, 2013.
[43] A. K. Alok and S. Gangal, “b→s decays in a model with Z-mediated
flavor changing neutral current,” Phys. Rev. D, vol. 86, no. 11, p. 
114009, Dec. 2012.
[44] C. M. Chandrashekar, S. K. Goyal, and S. Banerjee, “Entanglement
Generation in Spatially Separated Systems Using Quantum Walk,” 
vol. 2012, no. June, pp. 15–22, 2012.

[45] S. N. Sandhya and S. Banerjee, “Geometric phase: an indicator of
[46] S. Omkar, R. Srikanth, and S. Banerjee, “Dissipative and non-
dissipative single-qubit channels: dynamics and geometry,” Quantum 
Inf. Process., vol. 12, no. 12, pp. 3725–3744, 2013.
[47] H. Shekhar, S. Banerjee, and A. Chatterjee, “Controllable quantum
correlations of two-photon states generated using classically driven 
three-level atoms,” Ann. Phys. (N. Y)., vol. 331, pp. 97–109, 2013.
[48] S. Adhikari and S. Banerjee, “Operational meaning of discord in
terms of teleportation fidelity,” Phys. Rev. A, vol. 86, no. 6, p. 062313, 
Dec. 2012.
[49] S. Banerjee, C. M. Chandrashekar, and A. K. Pati, “Enhancement of
geometric phase by frustration of decoherence: A Parrondo-like 
effect,” Phys. Rev. A, vol. 87, no. 4, p. 042119, Apr. 2013.
[50] S. Valiavalappil and S. Harinipriya, “Electrically conducting nylon
6,6–polyaniline short composite fibres synthesised by the solvent 
coagulation method,” Synth. Met., vol. 162, no. 23, pp. 2027–2032, 
Dec. 2012.
[51] K. R. Hiremath, L. Zschiedrich, and F. Schmidt, “Numerical solution
of nonlocal hydrodynamic Drude model for arbitrary shaped nano-
plasmonic structures using Nédélec finite elements,” J. Comput. Phys., 
vol. 231, no. 17, pp. 5890–5896, Jul. 2012.
[52] E. F. Franchimon, K. R. Hiremath, R. Stoffer, and M. Hammer,
“Interaction of whispering gallery modes in integrated optical 
microring or microdisk circuits: hybrid coupled mode theory model,” 
J. Opt. Soc. Am. B, vol. 30, no. 4, p. 1048, Mar. 2013.
[53] M. Mazumdar and D. S. Banerjee, “On price discrimination, parallel
trade and the availability of patented drugs in developing countries,” 
Int. Rev. Law Econ., vol. 32, no. 1, pp. 188–195, Mar. 2012.
[54] M. D. Shrimali and S. Banerjee, “Commun Nonlinear Sci Numer
Simulat Delayed q-deformed logistic map,” Commun. Nonlinear Sci. 
Numer. Simul., vol. 18, no. 11, pp. 3126–3133, 2013.

Conference Presentations and Publications
1. Rakesh K. Sarma, Piyush Sharma, Digpal Kumar, Laltu Chandra, P.
Pradeep Kumar and Rajiv Shekhar, “On the applications of heat and fluid 
flow 
for 
designing 
solar 
thermal 
sub-systems”, 
Proceedings 
of
International 
Congress 
on 
Renewable 
Energy 
2012, 
PDPU,
2. Agarwal, R. V. Maitri, P. Garg, Laltu Chandra, “Design and Analyses of
Earth-air Heat Exchange Systems for Space Cooling”, Proceedings of IEEE 
Third International Conference Sustainable Energy Technologies 
(10.1109/ICSET.2012.6357430, 385 - 390 , 2012, IEEE) 2012, Kathmandu, 
Nepal .
3. Ambesh Dixit, Brajesh Tiwari, M. S. Ramachandran Rao, “Non-collinear
Weak Ferromagnetism in LaCrO3: a Theoretical Study”, Proceedings of the 
DAE-BRNS 4th Interdisciplinary Symposium on Materials Chemistry, 
11-15 Dec, 2012, BARC Mumbai.
4. E. Abdelhamid, R. Mukherjee, D. Mishra, Ambesh Dixit, B. Nadgorny,
G. Lawes, “UV induced stable conductivity in Indium Oxide films”, APS 
March Meeting, V. 58, No. 1, 18-22 Mar, 2013, Baltimore, USA.
5. Ching Eng Png ; Vivek Dixit ; Soon Thor Lim and Er-Ping Li,
"Accurate high-speed eye diagram simulation of silicon-based modulators ", 
Proceedings of the SPIE 8629, Silicon Photonics VIII, 86290S (March 14, 
2013);
6. Kensuke Ogawa ; Kazuhiro Goi ; Hiroyuki Kusaka ; Yoshihiro Terada ;
Tsung-Yang Liow, Vivek Dixit et al., "Low-loss high-speed silicon Mach-
Zehnder modulator for optical-fiber telecommunications ", Proceedings of 
the SPIE 8629, Silicon Photonics VIII, 86290U (March 14, 2013);
7. Soon Thor Lim ; Maoqing Xin ; Ching Eng Png ; Vivek Dixit and
Aaron J. Danner, "Hybrid silicon organic high speed electro-optic phase 
shifter ", Proceedings of the SPIE8619, Physics and Simulation of 
Optoelectronic Devices XXI, 86191K (March 14, 2013)
8. Udit Roy, Gaurav Harit, “Text Detection on Camera Acquired Document
Images using Supervised Classification of Connected Components in Wavelet 
Domain”, Proceedings of the International Conference on Pattern 
Recognition (ICPR), 11-15 Nov, 2012, Tsukuba Science City, Japan.

9. Gaurav Harit, Anukriti Bansal, “Table Detection in Document Images
using Header and Trailer Patterns”, Proceedings of the Indian Conference 
on Computer Vision, Graphics and Image Processing (ICVGIP), 16-19 
Dec, 2012, Mumbai.
10. K. R. Hiremath, L. Zschiedrich, S. Burger, and F. Schmidt, “Nonlocal
hydrodynamic Drude resonances of nano-plasmonic scatterers: Modeling and 
simulations”, Proceedings of the ECIO, 18-20 April, 2012, Sitges, Spain.
11. Sushmita Jha, “Debris clearance in the brain: Implications for inflammation
and repair”, Proceedings of the Young Investigator’s Meeting (YIM) 
Jodhpur, India bioscience.org, 09-13 Feb, 2013.
12. Pura Ram, A.K. Plapally, George, K.J.“Assessment of Household Water
Use Based on Personal Values, Social Influence and Daily Routines of People 
at Jodhpur near Thar Desert in India”, Proceedings of Watech Asia, 1, 11-
18, 13-14 Feb, 2013, Mumbai.
13. Barun Pratiher, “Tuning the Nonlinear Behaviour of Resonant MEMS
Sensors Actuated Electrically”, Proceedings of EUROSENSORS , 
Wroclaw University of Technology , 09-12 Sep, 2012, Krakow, Poland.
14. B. Ravindra, “Amorphous silicon based roof top and building integrated
photovoltaic plants”, Proceedings of National conference on advances in 
nanomaterials and nanotechnology for renewable energy conversion 
and storage devices, ANNRECSO-12 held at Kukas, Jaipur, 2012.
15. Ashutosh Singla, Jaya Shukla, Anil Kumar Tiwari, Sunil Prasad
Jaiswal, Vinit Jakhetiya, “Adaptive Predictor Structures for Lossless 
Compression of Videos”, 22nd IEEE Data Compression Conference, 410, 
10-12 April, 2012, Salt Lake City, USA.
16. Ashutosh Singla, Anil Kumar Tiwari, Sunil Prasad Jaiswal, Vinit
Jakhetiya, “Adaptive Predictor Structures for Lossless Compression of 
Videos”, Proceedings of the IEEE Data Compression Conference (DCC), 
410, 10-12 April, 2012, Salt Lake City, USA.
17. Vinit Jakhetiya, Sunil Prasad Jaiswal, Ashutosh Singla, Anil Kumar
Tiwari, “A Lossless Image Prediction Algorithm using Slope Estimation and 
Least Square Optimization”, Proceedings of 29th IEEE International 
Instrumentation and Measurement Technology Conference, 1567 - 
1570, 13-16 May, 2012, Graz, Austria.

18. Vinit Jakhetiya, Sunil Prasad Jaiswal, Ayush Kumar, Anil Kumar
Tiwari, “A Low Complex Context Based Image Interpolation Algorithm For 
Natural 
Images”, 
Proceedings 
of 
the 
29th 
IEEE 
International
Instrumentation and Measurement Technology Conference, 969-972, 
13-16 May, 2012, Graz, Austria.
19. Sunil Prasad Jaiswal, Vinit Jakhetiya, Ayush Kumar, Anil Kumar
Tiwari, “A Low Complex Context Adaptive Image Interpolation Algorithm 
For Real-Time Applications”, Proceedings of the IEEE International 
Instrumentation and Measurement Technology Conference (I2MTC), 1-
4, 13-16 May, 2012, Graz, Austria.
20. Vinit Jakhetiya, Sunil Prasad Jaiswal, Anil Kumar Tiwari, Oscar C.
AU, “Interpolation Based Symmetrical Predictor Structure For Lossless 
Image Coding”, Proceedings of the IEEE International Symposium on 
Circuits and Systems, 2913 - 2916, 20-23 May, 2012, Seoul, Korea.
21. Vinit Jakhetiya, Sunil Prasad Jaiswal, Anil Kumar Tiwari, Oscar C. Au,
“Interpolation Based Symmetrical Predictor Structure For Lossless Image 
Coding”, Proceedings of the IEEE International Symposium on Circuits 
and Systems, 2913-2916, 20-23 May, 2012, Seoul, Korea.
22. Gaurav Mittal, Vinit Jakhetiya, Sunil Prasad Jaiswal, Anil Kumar
Tiwari, Oscar C. Au, “Bit-Depth Expansion Using Minimum Risk Based 
Classification, IEEE Visual Communication and Image Processing”, 27-30 
Nov, 2012, San Deigo.
23. Juhi Bhadviya, Sunil Prasad Jaiswal, Vinit Jakhetiya, Anil Kumar
Tiwari, “Exploitation of Temporal Redundancy for Lossless Video Coding”, 
Proceedings of the biennial IEEE APCCAS 2012, 663-666, 02-05 Dec, 
2012, Taiwan.
24. Ayush Kumar, Nimisha Agarwal, Juhi Bhadviya, Anil Kumar Tiwari,
“An efficient 2-D jacobian iteration modeling for image interpolation”, 
Proceedings of the 19th IEEE International Conference on Electronics, 
Circuits and Systems, 977-980, 09-12 Dec, 2012, Seville, Spain.

Prem Kumar
Kalra Professor
&
Director University of
Manitoba,
Canada Electrical Engineering: Power
Abhishek
Mishra Assistant
Professor IIT BHU Computer Science and
Akhilesh
Mohan Assistant
Professor IIT Kanpur Electrical Engineering: RF and
Ambesh Dixit Assistant
Professor Wayne State
University Physics: Semiconductors,
Amit Mishra Assistant
Professor National Cellular and Molecular
Neuroscience, Cell Cycle
Regulation and Cancer Cellular and Molecular
Brain Neuroscience, Cell Cycle
Research Regulation and Cancer
Faculty Members and Specializations

Anand
Krishnan
Plappally Assistant
Professor Ohio State
University Mechanical Engineering:
Ananya
Debnath Assistant
Professor Indian
Institute of
Science,
Bangalore Multi-scale Modeling, Protein-
Ankita Sharma Assistant
Professor BHU Psychology:Gerontology,
Anil Kumar
Tiwari Assistant
Professor IIT
Kharagpur Electrical Engineering: Image
Ansu Louis Assistant
Professor IIT Kanpur English: American Literature,
Arnab Datta Assistant
Professor IIT Bombay Electrical Engineering:Electrical
Ashutosh
Kumar Alok Assistant
Professor IIT Bombay Physics: Particle Physics and
Cosmology Physics: Particle Physics and

Atul Dubey Assistant
Professor Rutgers
University,
USA Mechanical Engineering:
Atul Kumar Assistant
Professor IIT Madras Chemistry: Quantum
Information Processing Chemistry: Quantum
Ravindra
Brammajyosula Associate
Professor IIT Kanpur Mechanical Engineering:
Barun Pratiher Assistant
Professor IIT Guwahati Mechanical Engineering:
Bibhas
Adhikari Assistant
Professor IIT Guwahati Mathematics & Statistics:
Deepakkumar
M. Fulwani Assistant
Professor IIT Bombay Electrical Engineering: Control
Gaurav Harit Assistant
Professor IIT Delhi Computer Science &
Gourishankar S
Hiremath Assistant
Professor University of
Hyderabad Economics:Financial

Hari
Narayanan, V. Assistant
Professor IIT Kanpur Philosophy: Cognitive Studies,
Evolutionary Theory, Analytic
Philosophy and Mindfullness
George Assistant
Professor IIT Kanpur Philosophy:Applied Ethics,
Ethics of Technology, Bioethics
Kamal Kumar
Dua Kamal Kumar Visiting
Faculty Zoology(Environmental
Pollution), Bioethics
Kirankumar
Rajshekhar
Hiremath Assistant
Professor University of
Twente (The
Netherlands) Mathematics & Statistics:
Laltu Chandra Assistant
Professor Forschungsze
ntrum
Karlsruhe
GmbH &
University of
Karlsruhe,
Germany Mechanical Engineering : Solar
Mainak
Mazumdar Assistant
Professor Instiute for
Social and
Economic
Change
(ISEC) Economics: Intellectual
Mahesh Kumar Assistant
Professor IISc
Bangalore Physics:Group III-V quantum

Manikandan
Paranjothy Assistant
Professor IIT Kanpur Chemistry: Theoretical and
Manish Dev
Shrimali Assistant
Professor JNU Physics: Nonlinear Dynamics
and Chaos, Complex Systems,
Computational Neuroscience Physics: Nonlinear Dynamics
Meenu
Chhabra Assistant
Professor IIT Delhi Biological Science & Bio-
Monika Sinha Assistant
Professor Jadavpur
University Physics: Astrophysics,
Astroparticle physics Physics: Astrophysics,
Pradeep
Kumar, P. Assistant
Professor IIT Bombay Mechanical Engineering:
Thermal hydraulics, Solar
thermal system, Microfluidics
Puneet Sharma Assistant
Professor IIT Delhi Mathematics & Statistics:
Topological Dynamics, Low
Dimensional Chaos
Pushkar
Shripad
Joglekar Assistant
Professor Institute of Computer Science &
Engineering: Computational
Complexity, Algorithms.
Prodyut Ranjan
Chakraborty Visiting
Faculty IISc
Bangalore IISc Mechanical Engineering:Heat
Bangalore and mass transfer, Latent heat
Rahul Chhibber Assistant
Professor IIT Roorkee Mechanical Engineering:
Rahul Singhal Visiting Delhi
University Energy, Biosensors Energy, Biosensors

Rajiv Shekhar Visiting University of
California Energy
Rakesh Kumar
Sharma Assistant
Professor Assistant Indian
Institute of
Science Chemistry: Water splitting
Professor catalysis, solar hydrogen
Ravindra Arora Professor TU Dresden,
Germany Electrical Engineering:
Rakesh Saxena Visiting Mechanical Engineering Mechanical Engineering
Samanvita Pal Assistant
Professor Assistant IIT Madras Chemistry: Solution and solid
Professor state NMR and NQR
Sandeep
Kumar Yadav Assistant
Professor IIT Kanpur Electrical Engineering: Signal
Satyabrata
Adhikari Assistant
Professor Bengal Mathematics & Statistics:
Quantum Information Mathematics & Statistics:
Engineering Quantum Information
Satyajit Sahu Assistant Jadavpur Physics: Information Processing
Professor University in Biological Systems

Shaligram
Tiwari Visiting
Faculty IIT Kanpur Mechanical Engineering: Heat
Harinipriya
Seshadri Assistant
Professor IIT Madras Chemistry: Lithium ion
batteries, fuel cells, electro-
deposition, Thermal storage
systems, Monte Carlo
simulations, Materials synthesis
and characterisation
Shanmuganath
an Raman Assistant
Professor IIT Bombay Electrical Engineering :
Shree Prakash
Tiwari Assistant
Professor IIT Bombay Electrical Engineering:
Sonam
Mehrotra Assistant
Professor Rutgers, New
Brunswick,
U.S.A Biological Science & Bio-
Subhashish
Banerjee Assistant
Professor JNU Physics: Open Quantum
Sushmita Jha Assistant
Professor University of Cellular and Molecular
Neuroscience: Cellular and
molecular Neuroscience, Cell
and molecular Physiology Cellular and Molecular
North Neuroscience: Cellular and
Carolina at molecular Neuroscience, Cell
Chapel Hill, and molecular Physiology

VenkataRamana
Badarla Assistant
Professor IIT Madras Computer Science &
V. Narayanan Assistant
Professor IIT Kanpur Physics: Optics and Solar Field
Vidya
Sarveswaran Assistant
Professor IIT Madras English: Literature and
Vivek
Vijayvargiya Assistant
Professor IIT Madras Mathematics & Statistics:
Vivek Dixit Assistant
Professor National
University of
Singapore Electrical Engineering:

V.V.M. Sarma
Chandramouli Assistant
Professor SUNY at Mathematics & Statistics:
Smooth Dynamical Systems,
Renormalization of Unimodal
maps and Henon-like maps
Institute Staff
Name Designation
Dr. Kshema Prakash 
Deputy Librarian
Amardeep Sharma 
Assistant Registrar
Balu Ram Jat 
Audit Officer
Ashish Kachhawaha 
Account Officer
Gaurav Nigam 
Superintendent
Sandeep Singh Chandel 
Superintendent
Sudesh Kumar Agnihotri 
Jr. Superintendent
Sandeep Pareek 
Jr. Superintendent
Himanshu Sharma 
Jr. Superintendent
Sharabh Pradhan 
Jr. Superintendent
Naresh Chauhan 
Jr. Account Officer
Swati Kushwaha 
Jr. Assistant
Dhani Ram 
Jr. Assistant
Vinay Kumar 
Jr. Engineer
Chandresh Pareek 
Jr. Engineer
Rajendra Vaishnav 
Jr. Accountant
Sharad Srivastava 
Jr. Accountant

Dr. Leela Dhar Sanwal 
Medical Officer
Dr. M.M. Purohit 
Medical Officer
Dr. M.S. Charan 
Medical Officer
Apesh Singh Deora 
P.T.I.
Kamal Kumar 
P.T.I.
Rimpesh Katiyar 
Technical Superintendent
Narendra Kumar Singh 
Technical Superintendent
Amit Kumar Soni 
Sr. Library Information Assistant
Dheerendra Yadav 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Sanjay 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Vijay 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Bharat Pareek 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Rinkesh K. Mangal 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Shailendra Pratap Singh 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Poonam Chand Sankhala 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Raju Peta 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Vivek Verma 
Jr. Lab Assistant
Amit Gupta 
Jr. Lab Assistant
Pankaj Singh 
Jr. Technical Lab Assistant
Anurag Gupta 
Jr. Technical Lab Assistant
Praveen Suthar 
Jr. Technical Lab Assistant
Ganpat Choudhary 
Jr. Technical Lab Assistant

Staff appointed through Standing Committee
Name of Person 
Designation
K. K. Mathur 
Asst.Project Officer
S. R. Pandey 
Adviser
Bimal Roy 
Project Officer
Kundan Kumar 
Project Assistant
Kavita Dadhich 
Staff Nurse
Leena Goyal 
Staff Nurse
Neeraj Gupta 
Consultant
Gaurav Mathur 
Asst.Project Officer
Rajendra Prasad Utrelia 
Technical Assistant
Radheshyam 
Sr Project Associate
Krishan Kumar 
Junior Assistant
Priyanka Choudhary 
Health Assistant
R. K. Jain 
Technical Assistant
D. D. Singh 
Technical Assistant
Chanchal Khandelval 
Dy.Project Manager

Student Activities
 Unique Governance System (SCHoD)
 Major Student Events 
 National Festivals 
 Parivartan 
 Counselling Service 
 Student Placement Cell 
 Alumni Association 
 List of Students

Unique Governance System: SCHoD
Students’ Council for Holistic Development (SCHoD) is the regulatory body 
which facilitates and governs all student activities at IIT Jodhpur. With 
advisory support from the faculty, the SCHoD is run entirely by students. The 
elected leader of the SCHoD is the president. Apart from acting as the 
governing body for all the concerns of the students, SCHoD coordinates the 
activities of five different councils:
1. NUTS: Nurturing and Understanding Technology and Science 
2. PROM: Promotion Relations Occasion Management 
3. WAVES: Writing Awareness Vocal Entertainment Social Awareness 
4. SAGE: Sports Adventure Games And Exploration 
5. MAD: Media Arts & Designing
These councils work collectively together and is headed and run by the 
students for the students. The councils run the extra-curricular activities in the 
campus. Each council has various clubs through which it functions and 
performs it various activities.
Cultural, Technical, Sports, Media and Management constitute the entire 
activities of SCHoD. SCHoD has something to catch the attention of each and 
every student of IIT Jodhpur. The SCHoD is responsible for planning, 
designing and executing intra as well as inter collegiate events.
Nurturing and Understanding Technology and Science (NUTS)
NUTS is a part of Student’s body SCHoD and provides students an 
opportunity to explore the amazing world of technology, in order to innovate, 
to learn, to create, and to try out new things and at the same time have loads 
and loads of fun. This is a platform for one to realize his/her dream and to 
develop the next generation technology.
NUTS urges everyone to think beyond conventional boundaries. It also 
provides support and opportunity to help one unleash his/her imagination 
and an ideal platform to showcase one’s talent. NUTS members rightly say, 
“We make things fly, we build electronic gadgets, our own communication 
devices, we dare to stare deep into the sky not only to admire the cosmic 
wonder, but a lot more; we write our own codes, and we do make our own 
robots”.

Media, Arts and Designing (MAD)
“Media, Arts and Designing” is one of the most active students’ councils of 
IIT Jodhpur. Under the MAD council five clubs function very efficiently and 
smoothly with the help of an official coordinator and an assistant coordinator 
besides the student volunteers. All the clubs are under the direct supervision 
of the General Executive of the council. The following clubs function under 
the MAD Council:
 
Photography and Photo-editing Club.
 
Video Editing Club
 
Fine Arts Club
 
Media Screening
 
Animation

Writing, Awareness, Vocals, Entertainment and Social awareness (WAVES)
The WAVES cell is responsible for conducting several events and for 
providing several avenues for students to express their freedom and 
creativity. These events include workshops and competitions, helping 
students showcase, as well as hone their talents. The following clubs function 
under the WAVES cell:
 
The Music Club: It is the haven for the musically inclined, dealing with the 
entire musical spectrum, from Hindustani to Western, vocals and 
instrumentals.
 
The Dance Club: It consists of an extremely competitive team that has 
performed at festivals across the country.
 
The Drama Club: It produces a wide variety of plays, including comedy and 
Nukkad (street plays) that raise awareness about burning social issues.
Sports, Adventures, Games, and Explorations (SAGE)
Sports, Adventures, Games and Explorations is an organization dedicated to 
the improvement of traditional sports education and to the configuring of a 
unique sports culture through various competitions, festivals, disciplines, and 
social integration programmes. The SAGE seeks to develop a system that 
brings a healthier way of life to our student athletes, helps them make better 
decisions, feel a winning attitude, and assists them in developing their skills 
and abilities, thereby making them better human beings.
Sports council with its fabulous performance in consecutive four Inter IIT 
festivals has motivated each and every student of the institute to be a part of it 
and contribute to it even further. The SAGE has been successfully organizing 
various inter college and intra college festivals in every academic session like 
Varchas and Kridansh. The SAGE also has the recreational clubs such as 
Adventure Club, Carom Club, Chess Club, Bridge Club, Skating Club, and 
the Yoga Club.
Promotion Relation Occasion Management (PROM)
Promotion Relation Occasion Management, (PROM), is the 5th and newest cell 
of IIT Jodhpur’s Students Council for Holistic Development. A very non-
technical cell, PROM deals with the managerial and social aspects of a 
student’s life in IIT Jodhpur. In today’s overly competitive world, a student

not only needs to be technically sound, but also has to be capable of putting 
the deal across the table, and making a generally good impression among 
their peers, superiors and juniors. A successful person today is recognised by 
the ease of communication, body language, punctuality, self-confidence and 
motivational capabilities, as well as proficiency in their field of interest. At IIT 
Jodhpur, students, through their academics and other extra-curricular 
activities, attain technical proficiency of the highest level. With the inception 
of PROM, it is absolutely certain that the students walking out of this campus 
will also be able to take control and execute activities and jobs as required 
from them. At IIT Jodhpur, a student will, thus, participate in events 
technical, cultural, or sporty in nature, while also learning how to plan, 
organise, conduct and execute such events. Students will also get an 
opportunity to express and experience as they move from under-graduate 
students to mature, full-grown individual personalities. PROM provides a 
platform for budding businessmen, entrepreneurs, and managers. It 
inculcates in the individual a sense of responsibility and purpose, and helps 
them decide a plan of action to go about tackling various obstacles.
Major Student Events
The students were successful in nurturing a culture filled with energy and 
initiative. Students have organized several events, which served as a medium 
of communication and bonding amongst themselves, given their variegated 
background and ethnicity. Several major festivals like Diwali, Sankranti, Eid, 
Holi and Ganesh Chaturthi were celebrated with great enthusiasm. Various 
sports activities were also regularly conducted to encourage sportsmanship. 
The faculty members were greatly supportive and promoted these activities. 
The following are some of the major student activities that had taken place in 
the campus in the year 2012-2013.
Spandan
Spandan, the annual intra-college cultural fiesta of Indian Institute of 
Technology, Jodhpur was organized from the 17-19 September, 2012. The 
theme for this year’s festival was 'Scary'. The beginning of the event was 
marked by a wonderful musical extravaganza by Grammy Award winner, the 
guitar player, Pandit Vishwa Mohan Bhatt followed by an astounding music 
show by famous Sarangi player, Dr. Deepak Paramashivan Kaundinya.

The fest had a plethora of events & competitions, and filled with a surfeit of 
literature and musical events, besides other creative activities like movie 
scene spoofing, debates and skit presentations. The fest culminated into a 
grand event with the visit of an Indian filmmaker, a fashion designer, a poet, 
an artist, a music-lover, a revivalist, and a social worker, Rajah Mujaffar Ali 
along with his wife Meera Ali which triggered the sensation of love and 
respect towards the rich and varied Indian cultural heritage. In Mr. Ali's 
words, "Faith in god sets you free of all fears. Art and all that relates to art 
creates a spell binding impact on individuals. It has the power and energy to 
relieve all humanity of terror and generate confidence and peace." With these 
words, he guided us with his experience and ideas to begin with the new 
branch on "Art, Culture and Heritage" in IITJ.
NiMBLE
The intra-college technical festival of IIT Jodhpur, NiMBLE was celebrated 
from 02-04 November, 2012. It was a worth remembering time and an 
opportunity to get people acquainted with the open web technologies. A few 
days just before Nimble 2012, a session for people to get to know the ways in 
which they can start contributing to Mozilla was organized. The student 
enthusiasm and participation was unmatched. Major events in this techno-fest 
were Kill Flash, Web Clone, etc.

This event saw a real quality of ideas that emerged from young minds. It has 
been a first-hand experience to students in carving out some useful apps 
purely on web technologies.
Ignus
Ignus 2013 was the third annual socio-techno-cultural festival of IIT Jodhpur 
which took place from Feb 21-24, 2013 organized in association with Bank of 
India. This year Ignus saw huge participation from students, corporate houses 
and government bodies. More than 4000 students from 22 cities across the 
nation participated in the festival. Living to its tradition of classical melody 
this year the Sitar Maestro Shubendra Rao performed at the opening 
ceremony. The performance of Hindi Band ‘Agnee’ and the famous 
Bollywood singer ‘Rabbi Shergill’ on the subsequent nights were the key 
attraction of the whole festival. The competition ‘Clash of Band’ emerged as 
the largest Semi Professional Rock Band Competition of Rajasthan. This year 
Ignus held its first ever Technical Expo which enjoyed huge participation 
from students as well as corporate bodies. Industry leaders like Bosch, Tata 
Motors, DRDO presented their exhibits during the expo. Ignus also witnessed 
talk by Nobel Prize winner Dr. Adam Guy Riess in the guest lectures. More 
than 70 cultural and technical events were organized during the four days of 
the festival. In its spirit to promote entrepreneurship, IIT Jodhpur also hosted 
IITJ E- Conclave in association with the government of Rajasthan during 
Ignus. This year Ignus also took the challenge to create environment 
awareness through its social initiative ‘Prakriti’ in association with the 
Jodhpur Development Authority where the team spanned across schools in 
Jodhpur to sensitize students about the impact of our activities on 
environment.

The event involved participation in various sports from more than 100
Varchas
Varchas is the annual sports festival of IIT Jodhpur. Being the largest sports 
festival of Rajasthan, Varchas celebrates the spirit of sportsmanship and 
serves as a platform to showcase the countless hours of perspiration put in by 
teams to achieve excellence in their sports. Varchas encompasses several 
sports competitions under its banner.
Besides sports events, IIT Jodhpur also organizes a social initiative and a 
health initiative under the banner of VARCHAS. They are:

 Soch: It is a social initiative of Varchas where we have successfully
developed a platform to spread awareness and motivate citizens to 
take a collective stand against contemporary social issues prevailing in 
our society and come up with practical solutions.
 City Marathon: IIT Jodhpur has been successful in starting a trend of
organising a city marathon every year with a vision to spread social 
awareness and solidarity among the individuals. The concluding year 
marathon was organised in association with Rajasthan Police and was 
flagged by Mr. Gaurav Goyal, collector and DM, Jodhpur.
VARCHAS has truly justified its credo year after year – “Vigour Valour 
Victory”.
National Festivals
Independence Day Celebrations
Independence 
Day 
was
celebrated in the Institute on 15 
August 2012 with a great spirit of 
patriotism. The Director, faculty 
members, 
staff 
and 
students
participated in it. The function 
started at 9.15 am on the morning 
of August 15 at the Academic 
campus 
with 
the 
Director
hoisting 
our 
national 
flag,
followed by our national anthem 
and 
Director’s 
address. 
The
students 
organized 
various
cultural 
programmes 
like
performance of IITJ musical band 
‘Sangam’, recitation of patriotic 
poems, 
speeches, 
dance 
and
street play performance by our 
students’ dance and dramatics 
club, etc. Prizes were distributed
to students who aced in academics and extra-curricular activities.

Gandhi Jayanthi Celebrations
IIT Jodhpur community gathered on 02 October 2012 to celebrate the birthday 
of the father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi, and Lal Bahadur Shastri. The 
function was illuminated by the inspiring speeches of faculty members and 
student representatives.

Republic Day Celebrations
The Republic Day celebration 2013 started with a parade of the security wing, 
followed by the Director’s hoisting of the national flag. The Director’s address 
emphasized the significance of the day.
The celebration witnessed several cultural programmes organized by the 
students. The best performers among students in various academic and extra-
curricular activities were felicitated on this occasion.
Parivartan
“Parivartan” means to change. PARIVARTAN is an initiative undertaken by 
IIT Jodhpur Students Community to improve education level and awareness 
in the poor and deprived section of society through teaching, youth

counselling and parent counselling. Its mission is "To Bridge the Inequality in 
Society Through Education." These youngsters are working in the direction of 
making an educated and well informed society around us. It is an initiative to 
improve education level and awareness in the poor and deprived section of 
society through teaching, youth counselling, and parent counselling. This 
team adopts a village which is very poor, where literacy rate is very low, and 
where basic facilities of life like health, water, shelter, education etc. are not 
easily available. The objective is to convert that village into a developed 
village in such a manner that it will represent an ideal model of a developed 
village in 21st century.
Parivartan has three verticals around which all its activities revolve which 
comprises of:
1. Awareness 
2. Helping deprived people 
3. Research and development for a sustainable model of the lesser
established areas of society.
Groups of student under the Parivartan team regularly visits nearby areas, 
conduct activities and study sessions for small children, organize plays to 
increase awareness among people about various issues related to their beliefs 
and directly affecting their lifestyle through our inventiveness.
In 2012, a youth campaign for the nearby villagers, as a part of the 
“Parivartan” programme.

Counselling Service
Studying at IIT will bring about tremendous academic growth and overall 
development; however, it will also be accompanied by significant challenges 
and considerable stress. Our counselling services team provides personalized 
guidance and necessary resources to help students under duress to achieve 
their goals. The counselling service is a voluntary organization formed by a 
group of dedicated students guided by faculty members. It helps students 
deal with various problems both personal and academic, and plays a 
significant role in enriching their experiences as students in the institute.
The counselling service was formed in the year 2009 by the first batch of 
students under the supervision of a faculty advisor. Over the years it has 
evolved into a significant body comprising of seven faculty members and a 
total of 25 students. Student guides and members of the counselling team are 
selected through an annual election process. Each student guide is responsible 
for the wellbeing of 8-10 students from the 1st year undergraduate batch. The 
counselling service strives for the wellbeing of all students and assists in their 
academic and personal growth. It provides voluntary, confidential and free 
counselling for a wide range of issues that include:
 Academic support: Provides information about the different academic
programmes of the institute, efficient time management skills, study 
skills, exam anxiety etc.
 Personal: Overcoming home-sickness, adjustment to new environment

Company Name Roll No.
Microsoft India Pvt. Ltd. Akanksha Saran J09006
Kumar Ashayam Gupta J09052
Shah Chintan Chirag J09091
Mayank Agarwal J09059
Naveen Shrivastava J09064
Shashank Kumar J09092
Sumit J09095
National Instruments Ety Mittal PG201172026
Ayyer Rishi Kalyan J09025
Flipkart Akshay Hari Kumar J09009
Anurup Ganguli J09019
Satyesh Jha J09088
Cisco Amit Ranjan Trivedi J09012
Amol Pol J09014
Aswin Siva J09023
Gautam Bajaj J09036
Vaibhav Jain J09104
Samsung Software Engineering Lab Ankit Karwasra J09015
Eshan Jain J09032
Jogendra Singh J09045
 Counselling advocacy, psycho-education and referral services to
students
 Interaction with the institute and the existing body of students 
 Encourages students discover extra-curricular interests/hobbies
Student Placement Cell
The Student Placement Cell (SPC) is entirely run and managed by the 
students in harmony with the official authorities, thereby taking care of the 
entire placement and internship procedure. The students coordinate the job of 
contacting various companies, their interaction with the students, arranging 
pre-placement talks, tests, interviews.
A goof number of companies in core engineering, IT, and banking sector, 
including Microsoft, National Instruments, Samsung, Flipkart, Infosys, TCS 
etc. have visited IIT Jodhpur since then. Public sector companies have also 
participated in campus placements.
Placement details of 2012-13 are:

Pranay Balar J09070
Rahul Nahata J09077
Sonal Gupta J09094
Zubin Sortee J09109
Ittiam Systems Pvt. Ld. Syed Faizul Hai J09100
Larsen & Toubro Kasuvojula Devendar J09048
Kshitij Kumar J09051
Honda Cars Bhaskar Puri J09027
Surendra S Choudhary J09097
3DPLM Software Solutions Limited Ashish Pandey J09021
Bhuwanesh Kumawat J09028
Infosys Ltd. Amrik Singh PG201172001
Deepak Kumar Gupta PG201172004
Govind Ram J09039
Nakul Shashikant Goud PG201172012
Nikita Chopra J09065
Prashant Babu J09071
Saurabh Heda PG201172019
Shantanav Chakraborty PG201172027
Zafar Ahmed Ansari PG201172025
Tata Consultancy Services Rajendra Nagar J09079
Rajni Yadav J09062
Cognizant Technology Solutions Abhishek Verma J09004
Amit Srivastava J09013
B. Amulya Sai J09026
Anurag Mitttal J09018
Darshan Joshi J09046
Kunal Chelani J09053
Saurabh Garg J09089
Y2CF Digital Media Pvt. Ltd. Abhinav Dadhich J09001
Garima Jain PG201172006
Naman Joshi PG201172013
Shobhit Mandloi J09093
Yatin Mehandiratta PG201172024
Freescale Semiconductor Sarthak Sharma J09087
Samsung India Software Center Ankita Samariya PG201172002
Govind Salvi PG201172008
Prem Raj J09075
Rahul Sachan J09078
Ravi Bhandari PG201172016
Ravin Kumar Jain J09082
Umesh Tanwar PG201172023

Nucleus Software Exports Ltd. Ruchi Toshniwal J09084
Tokala Sai Teja J09102
CMC Ltd. Rajput Shailendra Shesh
Kumar J09080
NTT Data FA Insurance Systems (India) Pvt.
Ltd. Govind Salvi PG201172008
Cairn India Jatin Rustagi J09044
Prashant Kumar Shukla J09073
Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited Akash Deep J09007
Jatin Goyal J09043
Nithin Kumar Kokkisa J09067
Vinay Kumar J09106
Yogesh Kumar Verma J09108
DRDO / ADA Akash Deep J09007
Gaurav Siwach J09035
Jatin Goyal J09043
Kiran Kumari J09050
M.Vidhya Sagar J09055
Manvendra Singh
Chauhan J09058
Mohammed Aquibuddin
Ahmed J09061
Pawan Kumar Sharma J09068
Prafful Gupta J09069
Sushant Gaurav J09099
Vinay Kumar J09106
Samsung India Software Operations Pawan Kumar Sharma J09068
Mahindra & Mahindra, AFS Pallavi Kar PG201171007
Indian Oil Corporation Limited Naveen Kumar Gautam J09063
Prashant Godara J09072
Pratesh Jhari J09074
Sanjay Kumar Rajak J09085
Sunil Saini J09096
Whizdom Educare Pvt Ltd Himanshu Singhvi PG201172009
Alumni Association
An Alumni Association was formed after the first batch of B.Tech. students 
completed their programme in April 2012, in order to provide them with a 
platform where they can stay connected to the institute, their fellow alumni, 
and junior students.

Roll. No. Name Centre
PG201081501 Belal Usmani Energy
PG201081502 Dharmendra Singh Rajpurohit Energy
PG201081504 Suresh Kumar Energy
PG201082502 Deepak Kumar Chhangani ICT
PG201181001 Deepesh Patidar Energy
PG201181003 Pura Ram Energy
PG201181004 Vikas Pratap Singh Energy
PG201181005 Vikash Chandra Janu Energy
PG201181501 Lokesh Saini Energy
PG201181502 Surendra Singh Barala Energy
PG201182001 Abhay Samant ICT
PG201182003 Heena Rathore ICT
PG201182005 Puneet Kumar Jain ICT
PG201182006 Ram Niwash Mahia ICT
PG201182007 Ravi Raj Choudhary ICT
PG201182009 Sapana Ranwa ICT
PG201182010 Saurabh Maheshwari ICT
PG201182011 Sibani Bisoyi ICT
PG201182501 Amit Bhati ICT
PG201182502 Kapil Sharma ICT
PG201182504 Kuldeep Goswami ICT
PG201182505 Mohd Najim ICT
PG201182506 Shrivishal Tripathi ICT
PG201183001 Rohan Sharma SS
Office of Alumni Relations is the primary co-ordinating centre for all official 
communication, events and other activities on behalf of the Chairman, 
Alumni Relations. The Office along with the Students' Alumni Cell is 
responsible for organizing the Annual Alumni Meet, Distinguished Alumni 
Awards (during Convocation) and other alumni related events.
The office works hard to build strong alumni relations and develop a unique 
platform for an effective communication between the alumni, faculty, 
students and the institute. The Alumni Relations Office is managed by its 
Chairman, Dr. Anand Krishnan Plapally along with Coordinator (Students), 
Dr. Mainak Mazumdar, one staff member and two student members.
List of Students
Doctoral Students

PG201183501 Parmod Kumar SS
PG201183502 Preeti Yadav SS
PG201281001 Ajay Jain Energy
PG201281002 Dharmesh Kumar Energy
PG201281003 Poonam Sharma Energy
PG201281004 Shejale Kiran Prakash Energy
PG201282002 Deepak Bharti ICT
PG201282003 Giriraj Vyas ICT
PG201282006 Onkar Krishna ICT
PG201282007 Rakesh Kanji ICT
PG201282009 Suresh Dahiya ICT
PG201282010 Vaibhav Saini ICT
PG201282012 Vibha Sahlot ICT
PG201282501 Shilpa Pandey ICT
PG201283001 Anoopa Joshi SS
PG201283003 Manvendra Sharma SS
PG201283005 Parvinder Singh SS
PG201283006 Pradumn Kumar Pandey SS
PG201283007 Rakesh Kumar SS
PG201283008 Ranveer Singh SS
PG201283009 Vinay Pratap Singh SS
Roll. No. Name Centre
PG201171001 Akash Yadav Energy
PG201171003 Anurag Energy
PG201171004 Digpal Kumar Energy
PG201171005 Gaurav Hedau Energy
PG201171006 Nupur Rathore Energy
PG201171007 Pallavi Kar Energy
PG201171008 Parag Kamal Talukdar Energy
PG201171009 Priyanka Bhartiya Energy
PG201171010 Rakesh Kumar Energy
PG201171011 Rakesh Sarma Energy
PG201171012 Ram Niwas Verma Energy
PG201171013 Shubhi Srivastava Energy
PG201171014 Vinod Kumar Verma Energy
PG201171015 Ayyaz Siddique Energy
M. Tech Students

PG201172001 Amrik Singh ICT
PG201172002 Ankita Samariya ICT
PG201172003 Anop Singh ICT
PG201172004 Deepak Kumar Gupta ICT
PG201172005 Durgesh Kumar ICT
PG201172006 Garima Jain ICT
PG201172007 Gaurav Raj ICT
PG201172008 Govind Salvi ICT
PG201172009 Himanshu Singhvi ICT
PG201172010 Kapil Lahuwa ICT
PG201172011 Nagabhushan Eswara ICT
PG201172012 Nakul Shashikant Goud ICT
PG201172013 Naman Joshi ICT
PG201172014 Prasad Kulkarni ICT
PG201172015 Ramnarayan Yadav ICT
PG201172016 Ravi Bhandari ICT
PG201172017 Ravi Ranjan ICT
PG201172018 Satyanarayan Sahu ICT
PG201172019 Saurabh Heda ICT
PG201172020 Shahnawaz Abdullah ICT
PG201172021 Shailendra Soni ICT
PG201172022 Supratim Shit ICT
PG201172023 Umesh Tanwar ICT
PG201172024 Yatin Mehandiratta ICT
PG201172025 Zafar Ahmed Ansari ICT
PG201172026 Ety Mittal ICT
PG201172027 Shantanav Chakraborty ICT
PG201271001 Avadhesh Kumar Sharma Energy
PG201271002 Balram Choudhary Energy
PG201271003 Gurveer Singh Energy
PG201271005 Rattandeep Singh Energy
PG201271006 Veenu Kumari Energy
PG201271008 Zeeshan Ahmed Energy
PG201271009 Sandeep Gupta Energy
PG201272001 Ammar Adil ICT
PG201272002 Deepa ICT
PG201272004 Hiteshi Jain ICT
PG201272005 Kulkarni Siddharth Sadanand ICT
PG201272006 Manjunath Bj ICT

PG201272007 Naresh Kumar Verma ICT
PG201272009 Satyam Saxena ICT
PG201272010 Shakti Gaurav ICT
PG201272011 Shinde Neha Naresh ICT
PG201272012 Shirish Mishra ICT
PG201273001 Adarsh Kumar Misra SS
PG201273002 Brajesh Kumar Shukla SS
PG201273004 Saloni Sardana SS
Roll. No. Name Discipline
J09001 Abhinav Dadhich EE
J09002 Abhinav Piprotar EE
J09004 Abhishek Verma EE
J09005 Ajay Monga CSE
J09006 Akanksha Saran CSE
J09007 Akash Deep EE
J09009 Akshay Hari Kumar ME
J09010 Akshay Jain ME
J09011 Amit Lonkar ME
J09012 Amit Ranjan Trivedi CSE
J09013 Amit Srivastava EE
J09014 Amol Pol CSE
J09015 Ankit Karwasra CSE
J09016 Ankit Gupta ME
J09017 Anurag EE
J09018 Anurag Mittal EE
J09019 Anurup Ganguli ME
J09020 Ashish Aseri CSE
J09021 Ashish Pandey ME
J09022 Ashok Banjara EE
J09023 Aswin Siva N CSE
J09024 Avinash Yadav EE
J09025 Ayyer Rishi Kalyan ME
J09027 Bhaskar Puri ME
J09028 Bhuwanesh Kumawat ME
J09029 Boobalan G EE
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2009

J09030 Chetan Bhatsange EE
J09031 Devula Vinay Kumar EE
J09032 Eshan Jain CSE
J09033 Ganduri Rahul Goutham EE
J09034 Gaurav Kumar ME
J09035 Gaurav Siwach ME
J09036 Gautam Bajaj CSE
J09037 Girish Budhwani CSE
J09038 Govind Agarwal EE
J09039 Govind Ram CSE
J09040 Gundre Vaibhav Pralhad ME
J09041 Harshit Kumar Pancholi ME
J09042 Hitesh Choudhary ME
J09043 Jatin Goyal ME
J09044 Jatin Rustagi EE
J09045 Jogendra Singh CSE
J09046 Joshi Darshan Rajeev EE
J09047 Kalpana Verma CSE
J09048 Kasuvojula Devendar ME
J09049 Keshav Kumar CSE
J09050 Kiran Kumari CSE
J09051 Kshitij Kumar ME
J09052 Kumar Ashayam Gupta CSE
J09053 Kunal Chelani EE
J09054 Lakhan Singh Jatav ME
J09055 M. Vidhya Sagar EE
J09057 Manish Kumar Jain CSE
J09058 Manvendra Singh Chauhan EE
J09059 Mayank Agarwal CSE
J09060 Mohammad Firoz ME
J09061 Mohammed Aquibuddin Ahmed EE
J09062 Rajni Yadav EE
J09063 Naveen Kumar Gautam EE
J09064 Naveen Shrivastava CSE
J09065 Nikita Chopra CSE
J09067 Nithin Kumar Kokkisa ME
J09068 Pawan Kumar Sharma CSE
J09069 Prafful Gupta EE

J09070 Pranay Balar CSE
J09071 Prashant Babu CSE
J09072 Prashant Godara ME
J09073 Prashant Kumar Shukla ME
J09074 Pratesh Jhari ME
J09075 Prem Raj CSE
J09076 Radhe Shyam Meena EE
J09077 Rahul Nahata CSE
J09078 Rahul Sachan CSE
J09079 Rajendra Nagar EE
J09080 Rajput Shailendra Shesh Kumar CSE
J09081 Rameshwar Prasad Meghwal CSE
J09082 Ravin Kumar Jain CSE
J09083 Rohit Jangir CSE
J09084 Ruchi Toshniwal CSE
J09085 Sanjay Kumar Rajak ME
J09086 Sanjay Kumar Rav CSE
J09087 Sarthak Sharma EE
J09088 Satyesh Jha ME
J09089 Saurabh Garg EE
J09090 Saurajit Sar EE
J09091 Shah Chintan Chirag CSE
J09092 Shashank Kumar CSE
J09093 Shobhit Mandloi EE
J09094 Sonal Gupta CSE
J09095 Sumit CSE
J09096 Sunil Saini EE
J09097 Surendra S Choudhary ME
J09098 Surendra Verma EE
J09099 Sushant Gaurav EE
J09100 Syed Faizul Hai EE
J09101 Tambade Narendra Satish ME
J09102 Tokala Sai Teja CSE
J09103 Utkarsha Verma EE
J09104 Vaibhav Jain CSE
J09105 Vennam Samuel Susmith ME
J09106 Vinay Kumar ME
J09107 Vivek Sharma EE
J09108 Yogesh Kumar Verma EE

J09109 Zubin Sortee CSE
Roll. No. Name Discipline
UG201010001 Abhishek Anand CSE
UG201010002 Aman Deep CSE
UG201010003 Amar Singh Saini CSE
UG201010004 Anurag Saini CSE
UG201010005 Bollempalli Trivikram Chowdary CSE
UG201010006 Dheeraj Tak CSE
UG201010007 Godugu Ravi Kiran CSE
UG201010008 Hemlata Soni CSE
UG201010009 Junaid Masood CSE
UG201010010 Kanchan Kumari CSE
UG201010011 Khusheeram Meena CSE
UG201010012 Kishor Mehra CSE
UG201010013 Lalit Yadav CSE
UG201010014 Mahesh Chand Gurjar CSE
UG201010015 Mandeep Singh Yadav CSE
UG201010016 Manish Kumawat CSE
UG201010017 Manpreet Singh Bedi CSE
UG201010018 Mohd Asad CSE
UG201010019 Mohd Hamzah Khan CSE
UG201010020 Monu CSE
UG201010021 Narendra Meena CSE
UG201010022 Nishchay Kala CSE
UG201010023 Pankaj Agrawal CSE
UG201010024 Pankaj Bhardwaj CSE
UG201010025 Pankaj Khandelwal CSE
UG201010026 Pavan Meena CSE
UG201010027 Pawan Meena CSE
UG201010028 Reena Yadav CSE
UG201010029 Rohit Gupta CSE
UG201010030 S Praveenkumar CSE
UG201010031 Saurabh Singh CSE
UG201010032 Sourabh Maheshwari CSE
UG201010033 Sukalkar Pavan Vijayrao CSE
UG201010034 Sumit Jangid CSE
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2010

UG201010035 Sunita Pateer CSE
UG201010036 Surendra Singh Meena CSE
UG201010037 Tapish Rathore CSE
UG201010038 Vemana Vinith CSE
UG201010039 Vikas Goyal CSE
UG201010040 Vikas Yadav CSE
UG201010041 Vinod Kumar Meena CSE
UG201010042 Vishwas Garg CSE
UG201010043 Yogesh Kumar Gupta CSE
UG201010044 Manu Agarwal CSE
UG201011001 Aayush Verma EE
UG201011002 Amit Kumar Verma EE
UG201011003 Arun Balajee V EE
UG201011004 Bharat Kumar Tanwar EE
UG201011005 Chintapalli Siva Pratheek EE
UG201011006 Dilip Kumar Meena EE
UG201011008 Ghatge Mayur Sambhaji EE
UG201011009 Himanshu Jaiswal EE
UG201011010 Mahesh Chandra M EE
UG201011011 Manish Kumar Meena EE
UG201011013 Mukul Bansal EE
UG201011014 Narendra Kumar Singh EE
UG201011016 Nimmarthi Vara Prasad EE
UG201011017 Pasunoori Prashanth EE
UG201011018 Pote Rohan Ramchandra EE
UG201011019 Prince Gupta EE
UG201011020 Priya Dhandev EE
UG201011021 Rahul Malav EE
UG201011022 Rahul Meena EE
UG201011023 Rajat Jain EE
UG201011024 Rajeev Kumar EE
UG201011025 Ravi Mahavar EE
UG201011026 Rinku Meena EE
UG201011027 Rishi Kumar EE
UG201011028 Rit Shekhawat EE
UG201011029 Saba Suhail EE
UG201011030 Sandeep Kumar Singh EE
UG201011031 Saurabh Santosh EE
UG201011032 Shashikant EE

UG201011033 Siddharth Singh Rao EE
UG201011034 Shiv Singh Meena EE
UG201011035 Srikanth M EE
UG201011036 Sudesh Gora EE
UG201011037 Sudhir Kumar Singh EE
UG201011038 Surya Pratap Singh Yadav EE
UG201011039 Tarun Patel EE
UG201011040 Tirumani Vamshi Krishna EE
UG201011041 Veepee Singh Meena EE
UG201011042 Vikash Kumar EE
UG201011043 Vinod Meena EE
UG201011044 Vivek Dubey EE
UG201011045 Yogendra Kumar Goyal EE
UG201011046 Aswin Suresh EE
UG201011047 Hemant Verma EE
UG201012001 Abhinav ME
UG201012002 Aditya Budaraju ME
UG201012003 Aditya Ranjan ME
UG201012004 Akash Bansal ME
UG201012005 Akhilendra Singh ME
UG201012006 Aman Doharey ME
UG201012007 Ankur Hasija ME
UG201012008 Anshul Gupta ME
UG201012009 Anuj Kumar ME
UG201012010 Ashok Kumar Meena ME
UG201012012 Chetram Meena ME
UG201012014 Gudla Sushanth ME
UG201012015 Gaurav Kumar ME
UG201012018 Jagmohan Shree Rao ME
UG201012019 Jaideep ME
UG201012020 Jai Prakash Meena ME
UG201012021 Kuldeep Singh ME
UG201012022 Manraj Meena ME
UG201012023 Mohit Naneria ME
UG201012024 Niket Kumar Singh ME
UG201012025 Nishant Kumar ME
UG201012026 Nitesh Kumar ME
UG201012027 Nitin Katiyar ME
UG201012028 Pradeep Rai ME

UG201012030 Rooga Ram ME
UG201012032 Sachin Gupta ME
UG201012033 Sarvesh Dayal ME
UG201012034 Shaikh Abu Amsal ME
UG201012035 Shivendra Rai ME
UG201012036 Siddarth Jain ME
UG201012037 Sitaram Meena ME
UG201012038 Snehlata Joshi ME
UG201012039 Tanmay Sethi ME
UG201012040 Utkarsh Trivedi ME
UG201012041 Vasu Goenka ME
UG201012042 Vijay Singh Meena ME
UG201012043 Vipin Kumar ME
UG201012044 Vivek Ganj Gahlot ME
UG201012045 Yatin Chaudhary ME
UG201012046 Yogesh Kumar ME
Roll. No. Name Discipline
UG201110001 Abhishek Saini CSE
UG201110002 Amit Raj CSE
UG201110003 Apurv Gupta CSE
UG201110004 Ashish Kumar CSE
UG201110005 Banoth Surya Prasad CSE
UG201110006 Debashish Ghatak CSE
UG201110007 Deven Bhooshan CSE
UG201110008 Gurupratap CSE
UG201110009 Hari Om Gaur CSE
UG201110010 Heena Masuriya CSE
UG201110011 Hemraj Kumawat CSE
UG201110012 Jitendra Kumar Chaudhary CSE
UG201110013 Jitendra Singh Garhwal CSE
UG201110014 Kalpnath Rao CSE
UG201110015 Kankanti Nithin Veer Reddy CSE
UG201110017 Kuchana Maharshi Devaraj CSE
UG201110018 Mahesh CSE
UG201110019 Mayank Agrawal CSE
UG201110020 Mayank Mittal CSE
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2011

UG201110021 Palak Samaiya CSE
UG201110022 Pitta Divya Shree CSE
UG201110023 Praneeth A S CSE
UG201110024 Prashant Rastogi CSE
UG201110025 Ravi Kumar Meena CSE
UG201110026 Revti Raman Singh CSE
UG201110027 Rishi Mishra CSE
UG201110028 Sahil Kharb CSE
UG201110029 Sanjeev Kumar CSE
UG201110030 Santosh Kumar Siddharth CSE
UG201110031 Saurabh Kumar Gangwar CSE
UG201110032 Shah Jenil Dilip CSE
UG201110033 Shivam Verma CSE
UG201110034 Siddharth Kumar Singh CSE
UG201110035 Siddharth Maheshwari CSE
UG201110036 Sonu Mehta CSE
UG201110037 Syed Navaid Ahmad CSE
UG201110038 Yash Kumar Sonthalia CSE
UG201110039 Yeravothula Rohith CSE
UG201110040 Gatla Rajasekhar Reddy CSE
UG201111001 Abhishek Bassan EE
UG201111002 Abhishek Pilania EE
UG201111003 Anshul Narayan Bhatt EE
UG201111004 Anshul Singh Parihar EE
UG201111005 Anurag Dharmawat EE
UG201111006 Atul Agarwal EE
UG201111007 Battula Sasi Kaushik EE
UG201111008 Brajesh Kumar EE
UG201111009 Bussa Pavan Kumar EE
UG201111010 Damacharla Sandeep EE
UG201111011 Devendra Kumar Jangid EE
UG201111012 Gajarla Ravi Teja EE
UG201111014 Guneet Singh Mehta EE
UG201111015 Hari Om Meena EE
UG201111016 Harshit Dixit EE
UG201111017 Hem Singh Meena EE
UG201111018 Hemant Kumar Biloniya EE
UG201111019 Kadoo Amruta Anil EE
UG201111020 Kotha Sudheer EE

UG201111021 Koyinni Deekshitha EE
UG201111022 Krishna Kumar Damolia EE
UG201111023 Kuldeep Singh Rathore EE
UG201111024 Kumar Saurav EE
UG201111025 Lalithkumar P EE
UG201111026 Prashant Mittal EE
UG201111027 Rahul Rathore EE
UG201111028 Rangaraju Yashomani Srikar EE
UG201111029 Ravindra Kumar Sharma EE
UG201111030 Ravyansh Kumar EE
UG201111031 Sanchit Kumar Singh EE
UG201111032 Satyendra Kumar Gautam EE
UG201111033 Shivalika Agarwal EE
UG201111034 Shivam Punia EE
UG201111035 Sudhanshu Singh EE
UG201111036 Sunil Kumar EE
UG201111037 Vadakattu Sreeja EE
UG201111038 Vineet Kumar EE
UG201111039 Voruganti Surya Teja EE
UG201112001 Alvin Roy Aliath ME
UG201112002 Ankit Aggarwal ME
UG201112003 Ashutosh Mittal ME
UG201112004 Ashutosh Vishwakarma ME
UG201112005 Atishay Jain ME
UG201112007 Chetan Regar ME
UG201112008 Chilakamarri Satya Ranga Prasanth ME
UG201112009 Deep Kumar ME
UG201112010 Deshraj Meena ME
UG201112011 Devesh Singh ME
UG201112012 Dheeraj ME
UG201112013 Gajanand Saini ME
UG201112014 Gautam Kumar ME
UG201112015 Harsh Kumar Karmveer ME
UG201112016 Harshit Srivastava ME
UG201112017 Himanshu Sahu ME
UG201112018 Kishan Sharma ME
UG201112019 Kothapally Mounish ME
UG201112020 Kunal Vishnu Paraswani ME

UG201112021 Kundan Singh Meena ME
UG201112022 Maninder Singh ME
UG201112023 Manish Sachdeva ME
UG201112024 Mohit Dadhich ME
UG201112025 Mukul Kumar Gupta ME
UG201112026 Navneet Kumar Yadav ME
UG201112027 Neeraj Kumar ME
UG201112028 Rahul Sathya Babu ME
UG201112029 Sagar Anand Ramgare ME
UG201112030 Sandeep Shankarrao Hatte ME
UG201112031 Sanket Kinage ME
UG201112032 Shravan Mishra ME
UG201112033 Siddee Meena ME
UG201112035 Smriti Jain ME
UG201112036 Tagde Prateek Prakash ME
UG201112037 Vaidya Kedar Sanjay ME
UG201112038 Vikash ME
UG201112039 Wins Goyal ME
UG201113001 Arvind Pandey SS
UG201113002 Abhishek Singh SS
UG201113003 Ajay Sunarthi SS
UG201113004 Akhil Arora SS
UG201113005 Aniruddh Ramrakhyani SS
UG201113006 Ankit Singh SS
UG201113007 Arpit Agarwal SS
UG201113008 Atharv S Ghaisas SS
UG201113010 Desidi Siva Prakash SS
UG201113011 Dhiraj Bhatt SS
UG201113012 Divya Grover SS
UG201113013 Gurjot Singh SS
UG201113014 Himanshu Shukla SS
UG201113015 Jaswant SS
UG201113016 Jitendra Kumar Meena SS
UG201113017 Kakkirala Anuroop SS
UG201113018 Kowlagi Sudhendra Narayan SS
UG201113019 Krati Saxena SS
UG201113020 Kusum Lata Meena SS
UG201113023 Manthani Tejaswi SS

UG201113024 Mohamed Rehan Mohamed Sagheer SS
UG201113025 Neelesh Dwivedi SS
UG201113026 Neha Singh Chauhan SS
UG201113028 Pratik Kumar SS
UG201113029 Rahul Kumar SS
UG201113030 Raj Rohit Jalem SS
UG201113032 Rishabh Jain SS
UG201113033 Sankha Narayan Guria SS
UG201113036 Shinde Sahil Anil SS
UG201113037 Tavish Garg SS
UG201113039 Vinnakota Sai Rakshit SS
Roll. No. Name Discipline
UG201210001 Abhishek Kumar Cse CSE
UG201210002 Aditya Yadav CSE
UG201210003 Akash Mishra CSE
UG201210004 Akshit Jain CSE
UG201210005 Aseem Raj Baranwal CSE
UG201210006 Asheet Kumar CSE
UG201210007 Attanti Madhurya CSE
UG201210008 Bandela Prathyusha CSE
UG201210009 Basamgari Harika CSE
UG201210010 Bundele Manas Mahesh CSE
UG201210011 Dhake Akash Hiraman CSE
UG201210012 Dinesh Kumar Jangra CSE
UG201210013 Dinesh Kumar Saini CSE
UG201210014 Gaurav Shastri CSE
UG201210015 Gondi Dedeepya Sai CSE
UG201210016 Gorla Uhasree CSE
UG201210017 Jinank Jain CSE
UG201210018 Kalshetti Pratik Mallinath CSE
UG201210019 Kunal Dadheech CSE
UG201210020 Mala Muthyalappa CSE
UG201210021 Manish Jaiswal CSE
UG201210023 Pankaj Kumar CSE
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2012

UG201210024 Pawan Kumar Saini CSE
UG201210025 Rajesh Kumar Meena CSE
UG201210026 Rishabh Garg CSE
UG201210027 Rishikesh Meena CSE
UG201210028 Ritesh Kumar CSE
UG201210029 Rohan Khanna CSE
UG201210030 Sachin Grover CSE
UG201210031 Samarth Kumar Goel CSE
UG201210032 Shah Akshat Mukeshkumar CSE
UG201210033 Shivam Kumar Garg CSE
UG201210034 Siddharth Talesra CSE
UG201210035 Sonika Agrawal CSE
UG201210036 Sunil Kumar CSE
UG201210037 Vaibhav Singh Khokhar CSE
UG201210038 Vijendra Sukariya CSE
UG201210039 Vikas Meena CSE
UG201211001 Abhishek Thepra EE
UG201211002 Ajay Charan EE
UG201211003 Akarsh Rastogi EE
UG201211004 Akshay Arya EE
UG201211006 Anubhuti Mittal EE
UG201211007 Ashwani Kumar EE
UG201211008 Ashwani Nainawat EE
UG201211009 Deepak Verma EE
UG201211010 Devabattini Sriharsha EE
UG201211011 Dharm Raj Meena EE
UG201211012 Dheeraj P EE
UG201211013 Dinesh Gurjar EE
UG201211014 Farazuddin Ansari EE
UG201211015 Ghanshyam EE
UG201211016 Hitesh Kumar Singhal EE
UG201211018 Lalit Mirdha EE
UG201211019 Mamta Dhaka EE
UG201211020 Mukesh Kumar EE
UG201211021 Nisha Agrawal EE
UG201211022 Nishit Umesh Parekh EE
UG201211023 Pawan Kumar Verma EE
UG201211024 Piyush Dugar EE

UG201211025 Prakash Gehlot EE
UG201211027 Rajat EE
UG201211028 Rajat R Rahatgaonkar EE
UG201211029 Rajnesh Meena EE
UG201211030 Sanchit Gupta EE
UG201211031 Sanket Jain EE
UG201211032 Santosh Kumar Meena EE
UG201211033 Saurav Kumar EE
UG201211034 Sharath Kuntanhal EE
UG201211035 Shivam Upadhyaya EE
UG201211036 Shrish Lal Bhatnagar EE
UG201211037 Sriramadasu Ashok Kumar EE
UG201211038 Sunil Saran EE
UG201211039 Tarun Vatwani EE
UG201211040 Upendra Kumar Nagar EE
UG201211041 Vinay Shankar Saxena EE
UG201212001 Aditya Khandelwal ME
UG201212002 Ajay Kumar Jagetiya ME
UG201212003 Anjali Bansiwal ME
UG201212004 Ankit Jain ME
UG201212005 Ashish Kumar ME
UG201212006 Ashish Kumar ME
UG201212007 Atul Dubey ME
UG201212008 Ayush Bhadauria ME
UG201212009 B V Kishore ME
UG201212010 Balla Raghavendar Goud ME
UG201212011 Boddupalli Nibodh ME
UG201212012 Chamarthy Kameswara Shiva Dinesh ME
UG201212013 Chetan Gupta ME
UG201212014 Daman ME
UG201212015 Dilkhush MEENA ME
UG201212016 Himanshu Takwani ME
UG201212017 Himanshu Yadav ME
UG201212018 Kamlesh Aseri ME
UG201212019 Kanak Shrivastava ME
UG201212020 Manish Soni ME
UG201212021 N Vinaykumar Reddy ME
UG201212022 Navneet Mittal ME
UG201212023 Pavan Kumar Shakya ME

UG201212024 Sachin Yadav ME
UG201212025 Sandeep Kumar Meena ME
UG201212026 Saurabh Jain ME
UG201212027 Saurabh Pandey ME
UG201212028 Shah Jigar Deepak ME
UG201212030 Shreyas Srivastava ME
UG201212031 Shubham Gupta ME
UG201212032 Snigdhadeep Moitra ME
UG201212033 Sonu Siba Bara ME
UG201212034 Surendra Pal Singh ME
UG201212035 Tapesh Kumar Mourya ME
UG201212036 Thani Aswanth ME
UG201212037 Vaibhav Gupta ME
UG201212038 Varun Suryan ME
UG201212039 Vikash Kumar Goenka ME
UG201212040 Vishal Kumar ME
UG201213002 Anmol SS
UG201213003 Anshuman Singh SS
UG201213004 Antos C Varghese SS
UG201213005 Divya Nagar SS
UG201213006 Gaurav Choudhary SS
UG201213007 Gourab Kumar Patro SS
UG201213008 Hari Om Meena SS
UG201213011 Kirti Vardhan Rathore SS
UG201213013 Kota V Aakash SS
UG201213014 Kshitij Soni SS
UG201213016 Mahendra Kachhawa SS
UG201213018 Manish Malhotra SS
UG201213019 Narender Kumar SS
UG201213020 Paladugu Venkata Karteek SS
UG201213021 Palash Jain SS
UG201213022 Parag Rahangdale SS
UG201213023 Pise Indraneel Rajnish SS
UG201213024 Pragati Nagar SS
UG201213025 Prasoon SS
UG201213026 Priyanka Raju Masne SS
UG201213027 Purvi Tiwari SS
UG201213028 Raghunath Meena SS
UG201213029 Ravi Kumar SS

UG201213031 Rochika SS
UG201213033 Sharwan Songara SS
UG201213034 Shivam Choudhary SS
UG201213035 Shreshtha Garg SS
UG201213036 Sunil Suthar SS
UG201213037 Vibhav Sharma SS

Financial Brief
The MHRD has released a sum of Rs. 4,000.00 Lakhs as Grant-in-Aid under 
Normal Plan Head and Rs. 4,962.94 Lakh as opening balance as on 01-04-2012. 
The internal income of the Institute was Rs. 674.79 Lakh. The total Plan 
expenditure during the year was Rs. 5,025.14 Lakhs (Recurring Rs. 2,028.75 
Lakh and Non-Recurring Rs.2,996.39 Lakh).