SOURCE_PDF: 41d30e173e36_-news-interview-for-MTech-in-AMD-and-TFE--638769584933746733.pdf

Date Reporting Time Venue
Written Test/Interview
6th June 2024 9:00 AM: MTech TFE Room No: 114 for MTech TFE
Room No: 115 for MTech AMD
Mechanical Engineering Department,
IIT Jodhpur, Nagaur Road, Karwar,
Jodhpur 342037
Interview
6thand 7thJune 2024 2:00 pm on 6th May
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur 342037, INDIA
Annexure 3
Reporting Details for Written Test and/or Interview
All the candidates Shortlisted for Written Test and/or Interview for Admissions into i) MTech in Thermofluids
Engineering (TFE) and/or ii) MTech in Advanced Manufacturing and Design (AMD) are hereby requested to appear for
a written test and/or interview at IIT Jodhpur as per the following schedule:
Please note the following:
(1) You must report on time for the written test and/or interview. No TA/DA will be provided to the candidates. You
may
enter
your
readiness
to
participate
in
the
process
by
filling
in
the
form
at
(2) The written test will consist of two sections; Section I: General Aptitude and Mathematics, and Section II: Domain
Specific (a) Thermofluids for MTech (b) Manufacturing and Design for MTech AMD
(3) No request will be entertained to change the date for the written test and interview.
(4) You
are
advised
to
visit
the
department’s
web
page
before
the
interview
(Link:
(5) On-campus accommodation will be provided to the candidates attending the written test and interview on a first
come-first serve basis. Kindly make a note of the following:
(a) Candidates will be accommodated for a maximum period of three nights (5, 6 and 7th, June) to attend the
written test and/or interview that they are called for.
(b) Details for making the payment will be sent to the can in didates who wish to avail of the facility. Those who
wish to avail of the facility may enter their details in https://forms.gle/f8PLnaiYdEf3nb7XA
(c) Candidates may utilize the mess facility on a payment basis.
(6) You are advised to ensure that you fulfill the minimum eligibility criteria and must bring the following at the time
of the written test and interview:
(a) a copy of his/her application (duly signed)
(b) a passport-size photograph
(c) self-attested photocopies of his/her mark sheets, and degree certificates (if available)
(d) a valid GATE, NET, CSIR, UGC, NBHM or equivalent scorecard.
(e) The candidates belonging to GEN-EWS/OBC-NCL/SC/ST category must submit a self-attested copy of the
caste certificate. Certificates must be in a prescribed format and valid.
(f) Sponsorship certificates for full-time sponsored candidates, and NOC for part-time candidates
(g) Persons with disability have to keep necessary certificates regarding a minimum of 40% disability for
(7) Please note that this call is merely a request for a written test/interview and in any way does not guarantee
admission to MTech Program at IIT Jodhpur.
(8) The Institute reserves the right to withdraw the admission in case a candidate DOES NOT fulfill the minimum
qualification/required percentage of marks in the qualifying examination or supplies any false information.
(9) In case of any queries, please write to office_me@iitj.ac.in or call +91 291 2801502.