SOURCE_PDF: 43fbb669a989_AR2016-17_20_English_.pdf

Annual 
Report
2016-17
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Image Credits: Vidya Sarveswaran

Annual Report
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH 65, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur 342037

Editorial Board
Deepakkumar M. Fulwani, Coordinator (Faculty)
Atul Kumar, Coordinator (Academics)
V. Narayanan, Coordinator (R&D)
C. V. R. Murty, Coordinator (Students)
Amardeep Sharma, Deputy Registrar (Planning)
Kshema Prakash, Deputy Librarian
Editor
Kshema Prakash, Deputy Librarian Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur NH 65, Nagaur Road, Karwar
Jodhpur 342037 eMail: publications@iitj.ac.in
www.iitj.ac.in
Copyright © 2017, Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur (www.iitj.ac.in). All rights reserved

Preface i
Vision & Mission ii
Organizational Structure 1
Board of Governors 2
Finance Committee 3
Senate 4
Building and Works Committee 5
Key Functionaries 6
Departments and Associated Faculty Members 8
Staff Members 20
Academic Programs 22
Collaborations with Academia 23
Collaborations with Industry 24
R & D Projects 26
Patents & Publications 31
Awards & Recognitions 42
Outreach 46
Celebration of National Festivals & Observance of Days of National Importance 47
Institute Events 52
Visitors to the Institute 53
Inter-IIT Sports Meet 54
Present Campuses 55
Permanent Campus 57
Computer Center 59
Library 60
Contents

Laboratories 63
Health Center 81
Sports Facilities 81
SC/ST Cell 81
Women Cell 82
Students Gymkhana 83
Student Fests & Events 87
Counselling Service 91
Student Placement Cell 92
Alumni Relations 94
Registered Students in IIT Jodhpur 95
Financial Position 115

Into the eighth year of its existence, the Institute has 
taken yet another step forward by forming three new 
departments. They are the Departments of Chemical 
Engineering, Civil Engineering and Materials Engineering. 
Selection of Faculty Members is underway for these new 
departments. Also, in line with the vision of the Institute, 
the Department of Biology has been renamed as the 
Department of Bioscience and Bioengineering.
In terms of academics, the Institute is steadily marching 
forward with its education programs at the four levels, 
namely B.Tech., M.Sc., M.Tech., and Ph.D. Programs. With 
the formation of three new departments in this year, it 
is hoped to roll out new streams of B.Tech., M.Tech. and 
Ph.D. Programs in these areas too, in the years to come. 
And, on the research front, the number of sponsored 
projects increased from 47 to 53, this year. There is an 
increase in total number of research publications as well,
from 112 of previous year to 124 this year, with journal 
papers increasing from 75 to 89.
At the pinnacle of the events of the year, the 3rd 
Convocation of IIT Jodhpur was organized on 8 December 
2016 – 157 students received degrees at the B.Tech., 
M.Tech. and Ph.D. levels for their hard work and dedication, 
and for the sacrifices of their parents. The major event on 
which the eyes of entire IIT Jodhpur community are set 
and hopes pinned, is our movement into the Permanent 
Campus. Most of the buildings of Phase I construction are 
moving towards the completion stage. The migration is 
slated to take place during July – August 2017.
11 new Faculty Members and 9 new Staff Members 
joined the IIT Jodhpur fraternity during the year. With this 
new energy, it is hoped that the Institute will begin the 
run for new academic initiatives in a deeper sense…
Preface
C. V. R. Murty

IIT Jodhpur 
Vision, Mission & Core Values
VISION
MISSION
CORE VALUES
The Institute shall
(1) Promote technology thought and action, and
(2) 
Prepare needed technical human resources to meet the technology 
challenges of the nation.
The Institute shall
1. 
Create a vibrant technology institute that incubates and promotes learning, research, invention and eventually 
innovation; and
2. Prepare each primary stakeholder towards their dharma, while continuing to adhere to its core values:
a) Prepare competent Technology Graduates ready to meet Grand Challenges of India;
b) Train active functionaries of a process driven professional institute;
c) Facilitate builders of an internationally competitive academic institute; and
d) Provide technology innovation as a force to as many industries as possible for economic value creation.
The Institute stands for a set of core values, wherein each member of the IIT Jodhpur community shall
(1)	
Uphold highest levels of human integrity and dignity;
(2) Not take unfair advantage of any stakeholder of the Institute;
(3) 
Work towards building the most admired technology Institute furthering interests of Students, Industries and 
Society;
(4) 
Commit to economic development of India through technological thought and action;
(5) Be ethical, sincere and open in all transactions; and
(6) 
Be continually responsible for upholding utmost confidentiality of all information and circumstances arising out 
of any interaction.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Chairm an, Bo ard of G overnors
ctor Finance Committee
Dire ctor Finance Committee
Institute Building & Works Committee
Organization
Organizational Structure
Under the broad umbrella of IIT Council, IIT Jodhpur functions under the guidance of the following statutory 
bodies.
(1) Board of Governors;
(2) Finance Committee;
(3) Senate; and
(4) Buildings & Works Committee.
Member details of these Statutory Bodies are given in the pages to follow.
Annual Report 2016-17

Board of Governors
Chairman
1.	Professor C. V. R. Murty
Director
IIT Jodhpur
Old Residency Road, Ratanada, Jodhpur 342011
2. Director (Ex-officio)
Professor C. V. R. Murty Director
IIT Jodhpur
Old Residency Road, Ratanada, Jodhpur 342011
Member-Nominees of the IIT Council
1. Professor Pankaj Chandra
Former Director
Indian Institute of Management Bangalore 560076
2. Professor N. S. Vyas
Chairman, Technology Mission for Indian Railways Ministry of Railways
Government of India New Delhi 110001
3. Mr. Kiran Karnik
Former President, NASSCOM S-315 Panchsheel Park
New Delhi 110017
4.	
 Mr. D. R. Mehta
Founder & Chief Patron
Bhagwan Mahaveer Viklang Sahayata Samiti 13A-Gurunanak Path
Main Malviya Nagar Jaipur 302017
State Government Nominee
1.	Principal Secretary
Higher & Technical Education Main Building Secretariat Government of Rajasthan Jaipur 302005
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Finance Committee
Chairman
1.	Professor C. V. R. Murty
Director
IIT Jodhpur
Old Residency Road, Ratanada, Jodhpur 342011
Members
1.	Professor C. V. R. Murty
Director
IIT Jodhpur
Old Residency Road, Ratanada Jodhpur 342011
2. Additional Secretary (Technical Education)
Department of Higher Education
Ministry of Human Resources and Development Government of India
Shastri Bhawan New Delhi 110001
3. Financial Advisor
Department of Higher Education
Ministry of Human Resources and Development Government of India
Shastri Bhawan New Delhi 110001
IDAS House No. 1090 Sector 29
Faridabad 121008
5. CA S. S. Bhandari
Director, Non-Executive Director on the Board Bank of Baroda
P-7, Tilak Marg, C-Scheme Jaipur 302005
6.	
 Dr. Gaurav Harit
Assistant Professor
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Jodhpur 342011
Annual Report 2016-17

Senate
Professor C. V. R. Murty
Chairman
Professor Pratap Bhanu Mehta
Member 
(Nominee of Board of Governors)
Professor H. P. Khincha
Member 
(Nominee of Board of Governors)
Professor Sanjeev Misra
Member 
(Nominee of Board of Governors)
Members
Coordinator (Faculty)
Coordinator (R&D)
Coordinator (Academics)
Coordinator (Students)
Head, Department of Biosciences & Bioengineering
Head, Department of Chemistry
Head, Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Head, Department of Electrical Engineering
Head, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Head, Department of Mathematics
Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering
Head, Department of Physics
Chairman, Wardens Committee
Chairman, Library Committee
Laboratory In-Charge, Workshop
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Buildings and Works Committee
Chairman
1. Professor C. V. R. Murty
Director
IIT Jodhpur
Old Residency Road, Ratanada, Jodhpur 342011
Members
1. Ms. Usha Kasana
Chief Architect
 Public Works Department Government of Rajasthan Jacob Road, Civil Lines Jaipur 302006
2. Mr. R. K. Govil
Additional Director General Civil (Retd.), CPWD 26, Ankur Apartments
 7, I.P. Extension
 Delhi 110092
3. Mr. V. K. Bansal
Chief Engineer Electrical (Retd.), CPWD 721 Sky Lark Apartment,
 Sector-6, Plot No.35, Dwarka New Delhi 110075
4.	
 Dr. B. Ravindra
Associate Professor
 Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Jodhpur 342011
Annual Report 2016-17

Institute Engineers
Administrative
Staff Members Administrative
Staff Members
Professors Incharge
Coord inators
Heads of D epartments
Deputy Librarian
Deputy R egistrars
Faculty
Incha
Labor Members
rge of
atories
Assistant Registrars
Key Functionaries
The Institute has organized its activities through various key functionaries, as depicted in the organogram below.
Details of various key functionaries of the Institute are as follow.
Director	
C. V. R. Murty
Coordinators	
Deepakkumar M. Fulwani, Faculty
V. Narayanan, Research & Development
Atul Kumar, Academics
C. V. R. Murty, Students
Kaushalkumar A. Desai, Laboratory In-Charge, Workshop
Heads of the Departments
Venkata Ramana Badarla, Computer Science & Engineering
Anil K. Tiwari, Electrical Engineering
B. Ravindra, Mechanical Engineering
Sushmita Jha, Bioscience & Bioengineering
Rakesh Kumar Sharma, Chemistry
Kirankumar R. Hiremath, Mathematics
Subhashish Banerjee, Physics
Vidya Sarveswaran, Humanities & Social Sciences
Convenors of Focus Groups
Sushmita Jha, Biologically Inspired System Science
V. V. M. S. Chandramouli, System Science
Professors In-Charge
Ashish Garg, Faculty
Navratan Mal Bhandari, Research & Development
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Chairman / Chairperson 
Samanwita Pal, Wardens Committee
P. Manikandan, Student Placement Committee
Satyajit Sahu, Medical Services Committee
Satyajit Sahu, Library Committee
V. V. M. Sarma Chandramouli, Logistics Committee
V. V. M. Sarma Chandramouli, Scholarships and Prizes Committee
Anand Krishnan Plappally, Alumni, Relations Committee
Ankita Sharma, Counselling Services Committee
Officers
Gaurav Harit, Chief Vigilance Officer
Gaurav Bhatnagar, Transparency Officer
Puneet Sharma, Hindi Officer
Mahesh Kumar, Green Initiative Officer
Satyajit Sahu, Nodal Officer for OBC, PwD, and Minorities
Barun Pratiher, Nodal Officer for SC and ST
Kshema Prakash, Women Cell Officer
Amardeep Sharma, Public Relations Officer
Sanjeeb Mukherjee, Infrastructure Engineer
Amardeep Sharma, Infrastructure Manager
Ashok Kumar Khanduri, Central Public Information Officer
Academic Committee
Coordinator (Academics)	Chairman
Members
Head, Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Head, Department of Electrical Engineering
Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering
Head, Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering	
Head, Department of Chemistry	
Head, Department of Mathematics
Head, Department of Physics	
Head, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Convener (Focus Group Biologically Inspired System Science)
Convener (Focus Group System Science)
Liaison Officer (SC/ST Cell)
Student Representatives
Secretary, ARA Society, Students Gymkhana
Three Student Representatives from ARA Society, Students Gymkhana
(one each from B.Tech., M.Tech. and Ph.D. Programs)
Annual Report 2016-17

Departments and Associated Faculty Members
The Institute has organised its academic activities to be conducted through eight Departments, and two Focus 
Groups. They are:
I. Departments
1. Bioscience & Bioengineering,
2. Chemistry,
3. Computer Science & Engineering,
4. Electrical Engineering,
5. Humanities & Social Sciences,
6. Mathematics,
7. Mechanical Engineering, and
8. Physics
II. Focus Groups
1. Biologically Inspired System Science, and
2. System Science.
The Institute welcomed 11 new Faculty Members into the IIT Jodhpur community. Details of Departments and 
associated Faculty Members are given in the pages to follow.
Additionally, this year, three new departments have been formed in the Institute, namely:
(1) Department of Chemical Engineering,
(2) Department of Civil Engineering, and
(3) Department of Materials Engineering.
Also, the Department of Biology has been renamed as the Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering. Recruitment of 
Faculty Members for the new departments is underway.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Name Research Areas
Sushmita Jha
Head of Department Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience, Cell and Molecular Physiology
Amit Kumar Mishra Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience, Cell Cycle Regulation and Cancer
Meenu Chhabra Biological Science & Bio-Engineering: Renewable Bioenergy Bioremediation
Sushmita Paul Computational Biology and Bioinformatics
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
The new Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering (formerly Department of Biology) is planned to be the hub 
at IIT Jodhpur of biological sciences, medical sciences, and technology. It aims at providing quality education, and 
undertaking research towards addressing the national needs (especially those leading to development of technologies 
for diagnostics and treatment by medical professionals). The Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering is looking for 
Faculty Members, whose competence spans over a wide range of domains needed to meet the national needs.
The Department is planning to offer B.Tech. (Biotechnology), M.Tech. (Bioscience & Bioengineering) and Ph.D. 
Program with specialisation in biological sciences, medical sciences, technology, and their interfaces. The department 
will offer a wide range of courses from foundational level to advanced level in the said domains for the various degree 
programs. Hands-on learning will be emphasized using state-of-the-art centralized research facilities.
The Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering will focus on collaboration, both within and outside the Institute, to 
enhance research potential and productivity. In particular, special effort is being made to interact with Faculty Members 
of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Jodhpur, towards developing technologies that are needed by the 
medical profession.
Following are the Faculty Members associated with the department:
Annual Report 2016-17

Name Research Areas
Rakesh Kumar Sharma
Head of Department Catalysis for Energy and Stereocontrol, Feedstock Chemistry, Fuel and Lubricants,
Energy Storage and Water Treament Technology
Ananya Debnath Theoretical and Computational Chemistry
Atul Kumar Quantum Information Processing
Manikandan Paranjothy Theoretical and Computational Chemistry, Chemical Reaction Dynamics
Ritu Gupta Nanomaterials & Nanodevices for Water, Energy and Healthcare
Samanwita Pal Solution and solid state NMR and NQR spectroscopy
Ramesh K. Metre Main-group organometallic chemistry,Coordination polymers,Inorganic- organic
hybrid materials and Metal phosphonate and phosphate chemistry
Department of Chemistry
Chemistry at IIT Jodhpur is where Chemistry sees Technology. At IIT Jodhpur, Chemistry embraces a distinctive 
locus in science and technology collaboration. The department is making technological contribution to new materials 
for energy solutions, catalysis and water. Fundamental understanding of chemical dynamics, biological phenomena, 
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance and Quantum Chemistry are growing in prominence. The vision of the Department of 
Chemistry is to strive to be acknowledged for excellence in teaching, research, and outreach. The following Faculty 
Members are associated with the department:
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Name Research Areas
Venkata Ramana Badarla
Head of Department Wireless Networks, and Cloud Computing
Gaurav Harit Image and Video Analysis
Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay Computer Vision
Aritra Banik Computational Geometry
Manas Khatua Wireless Networks
Department of Computer Science & Engineering
The Department offers B.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering) and Ph.D. Program with specialisation in Computer 
Science & Engineering. It has some state-of- the-art laboratory and research facilities.
Following are the Faculty Members associated with the department:
The department also has an Adjunct Faculty Member, Professor Venkatesh Raman from Institute of Mathematical 
Sciences, Chennai.
Annual Report 2016-17

Name Research Areas
Anil Kumar Tiwari
Head of Department Electrical Engineering: Image Processing, Video Processing, and Signal Processing
application in Bio-Medical
Abdul Gafoor Shaik Protection of various components of Power System, Protection of Distribution
Network with DG penetration, Power Quality assessment and mitigation in
Distribution Networks with Renewable Energy Source penetration
Arun Kumar Singh Communication Theory, Wireless and Mobile Communications, Satellite based
Navigation Systems, Spread Spectrum Systems
Deepakkumar M. Fulwani Control and state estimation of uncertain systems, Power system, Control issues in
wind energy conversion system
Mahesh Kumar Group III-V quantum structures by MBE, Growth of thin films and nanostructures,
Group III-nitride alloys for LEDs, HEMTs and photovoltaic applications, Inorganic-
Inorganic hybrid structures with special attention to band gap engineering, Si and
wide band gap semiconductors for MEMS, Micro and Nano device fabrications
Sandeep Kumar Yadav Signal Processing, Condition Monitoring, Image Processing, Data Compression, Blind
Source Separation, Artificial Neural Network
Department of Electrical Engineering
The Department offers B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering), M.Tech. (Electrical Engineering) and Ph.D. Program with 
specialisation in Electrical Engineering. It has some state-of-the-art laboratory and research facilities.
The following Faculty Members are associated with the department:
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Name Research Areas
Shree Prakash Tiwari Microelectronics & VLSI Technology, Microfabrication, Organic Electronics, Device
Physics and Characterization, New Device Structures
Rajlaxmi Chouhan Image processing, Noise-aided image processing using Stochastic Resonance, Image
enhancement, Digital watermarking, Image quality assessment
Mahima Arrawatia Antenna Design, Microwave circuits and RFIC design
Soumava Mukherjee Microwave Communication
The department also has a Scholar-in-Residence, Professor R. K. Shyama Sunder, who is a Senior Professor and J. C. 
Bose National Fellow at Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai.
Kota V. Murali, Chief Technologist, Semiconductor Research and Development Center, IBM India, Bangalore is 
associated with the department as an Adjunct Faculty Member.
Annual Report 2016-17

Name Research Areas
Vidya Sarveswaran
Head of Department English: Literature and Environment (Ecocriticism), Film and Literature, Literatures
of the Global South, Regional Literatures in Translation, American Literature
Ankita Sharma Psychology: Gerontology, Clinical and Positive Psychology
K. J. George Philosophy: Applied Ethics, Ethics of Technology, Bioethics
Rijo M. John Economics: Health Economics, Health Policy, Applied Econometrics, Development
Studies
V. Hari Narayanan Philosophy: Cognitive Studies, Evolutionary Theory, Analytic Philosophy and
Mindfulness
Mayurakshi Chaudhury Sociology/Sociocultural Anthropology: Gender Studies; Postcolonial South Asia;
International and Transnational Migrations, Qualitative Research
Department of Humanities and Social Sciences
The Department of Humanities and Social Sciences operates from spaces that give us an opportunity to act as an 
interface between empirical and experiential knowledge systems. Playing a significant role in the academic curriculum of 
the young engineers, we offer both core and elective courses at the Bachelors, Masters, and Doctoral levels. The ability 
to provide tools and skills for specific aims notwithstanding, the essence of Humanities and Social Sciences involves the 
sensitizing of individuals. Acting as facilitators, thus, we engage in meaningful interactions with students and help them 
witness, study, and understand the interplays among technology, society, and humanity. This task assumes even more 
significance in an educational context where the brightest young minds of India come together.
With Faculty Members who specialize in diverse disciplines (including Philosophy, Economics, Psychology, and 
Literature) and with students from a spectrum of backgrounds, the Department provides an enriching platform -where 
technical education can be complemented with human and social understanding. Following are the faculty members 
associated with the department:
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Name Research Areas
Kirankumar R. Hiremath
Head of Department Theoretical, mathematical and computational aspects of wave-matter interactions
Gaurav Bhatnagar Wavelet Analysis, Fractional Transform Theory, Multimedia Security, Image
Processing, Information Fusion
Puneet Sharma Topological Dynamics, Low Dimensional Chaos
V. V. M. S. Chandramouli Smooth Dynamical Systems, Renormalization of Unimodal maps and Henon-like
maps
Vivek Vijay Financial Risk Analysis, Categorical Data Analysis, Regression
Department of Mathematics
Mathematics, being the basis of many disciplines, is a subject that evolves with time and creates new theories and 
models to solve challenging problems of today. Since its inception, the department has been taking a leading role 
in developing new methods and models that can be used in diverse areas of computer science, engineering and 
basic sciences. The department has faculty with research interests in the areas of Mathematical Physics, Scientific 
Computation, Numerical Analysis, Differential Equations, Topological Dynamics, Low Dimensional Chaos, Dynamical 
Systems, Renormalization in Low-dimensional dynamics, Wavelet Analysis, Fractional Transform Theory, Image 
Processing, Financial Risk Analysis, and Categorical Data Analysis.
The department offers at undergraduate and postgraduate levels. It runs a four year B.Tech. Program in System 
Science, and a Ph.D. Program with specialization in different areas of Mathematics. Following are the Faculty Members 
associated with the department:
Annual Report 2016-17

Name Research Areas
B. Ravindra
Head of Department Design, Dynamics, Vibration and Control
Akshay Prakash Computational Fluid Dynamics
Anand Krishnan Plappally Water, Water Management and Characterization of Engineered Materials
Barun Pratiher Dynamics of Machines and Structures, Flexible Robots, MEMS, Rotor Dynamics,
Nonlinear Oscillations
Department of Mechanical Engineering
The desire to contribute to national and global causes such as the solar mission and climate change is at the heart 
of the academic activities carried out within the Department of Mechanical Engineering. Several application domains of 
interest in Mechanical Engineering (such as solar energy, automotive technologies and health) motivate Students, Staff 
Members and Faculty Members.
The B.Tech. Program in Mechanical Engineering commenced in 2008, since the inception of the Institute. Since then 
three batches have graduated and most of the Alumni are pursuing successful careers in the industry. Some of them 
have chosen to pursue higher studies in India, Europe and the United States of America.
During the last six years, several collaborative projects have been initiated with a number of industries and research 
laboratories across India (such as Thermax, Sunborne, Areva, STEAG, BHEL, IOCL, ONGC, BARC, and NFTDC) to pursue 
research and development in the area of mechanical engineering.
To respond to the diverse needs of students, broad based Bachelors and Masters Programs in Mechanical Engineering 
are being designed, with scope to let students specialize in interdisciplinary as well as sub-domains of Mechanical 
Engineering. A Doctoral Program is underway in the Department. Currently, about 10 Ph.D. students are pursuing 
research in thermal, design and manufacturing streams of Mechanical Engineering. The main objective of the academic 
programs is to build capacity and capability necessary to make the nation competitive in the globalized world. Also, the 
students are being made aware of professional skills, such as seeking patentable innovations, taking up technology 
transfer tasks and active collaboration with industrial partners.
The following Faculty Members are associated with the department:
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Name Research Areas
Kaushalkumar A. Desai Modeling of Manufacturing Processes, CAD/CAM, CNC Machining, Error
compensation
Laltu Chandra Solar thermal sub-systems (open volumetric air receiver, thermal energy storage,
air-water heat exchanger), Thermal hydraulics, Turbulence simulation (DNS/LES/
HYBRID/RANS) & model development, Computational Fluid Dynamics.
Prodyut R. Chakraborty Heat and mass transfer, Latent heat based storage device for high temperature
applications, Alloy solidification process, Active and passive solar cooling systems,
Electronic cooling
Rahul Chibber Welding and joining, Manufacturing and materials processing, Mechanical behaviour
of materials
Suril V. Shah Robotics, Multibody Dynamics and Control
Sriram G. Srinivasan Development and application of reactive force fields (ReaxFF), Density Functional
Theory (DFT) and Tight Binding (DFTB) methods for studying combustion, solid-
liquid interfaces, surface chemistry and catalysis
Sudipto Mukhopadhyay Energy Technology, Combustion Technology, Computational Fluid Dynamics,
Turbulent fol ws, Sprays
Annual Report 2016-17

Name Research Areas
Subhashish Banerjee
Head of Department Open Quantum Systems; Quantum Information; Non-Equilibrium Statistical
Mechanics; Quantum Optics
Ambesh Dixit Semiconductors, multifunctional ferroics & materials for energy-fabrication &
characterization, Photovoltaic materials & devices ab initio DFT study and device
simulations
Ashutosh Kumar Alok Particle Physics and Cosmology
Monika Sinha Astrophysics, Astroparticle physics
Satyajit Sahu Information Processing in Biological Systems
V. Narayanan Optics and Solar Field Design, Plasmonics, Laser Produced Plasmas (LPP), Pulsed
Laser Deposition (PLD), Plasma Diagnostics (Interferometry & Optical Emission
Spectroscopy (OES)), Laser Matter Interaction and Laser Cluster Interaction
Department of Physics
A visible research in fundamental Physics along with its applications is the major theme of Physics Department at 
IIT Jodhpur. The Faculty members carry out research in the field of Astrophysics, Condensed Matter Physics & Material 
Science, Particle Physics, Experimental and Theoretical Quantum Optics, Quantum Information and Foundations of 
Quantum Mechanics. The research facilities available in the department include SQUID magnetometer, Physics Property 
Measurement Systems (PPMS), Raman Spectrometer and Scanning Tunnelling Microscope (STM). Following are the 
faculty members associated with the department:
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Name Research Areas
Somnath Ghosh Light in disordered and complex systems, Mid-IR photonics and unconventional
devices
The department also has a Scholar-in-Residence, Professor K. L. Chopra, Advisor, Thin Film Laboratory, IIT Delhi.
Focus Groups
Biologically Inspired System Science (BISS)
Biologically Inspired System Science (BISS) is a stream initiated with the broad objective to design novel, adaptive 
and sustainable technological solutions inspired by biological systems and processes. The Institute recognises the need 
for a test-oriented singular education towards a creativity-oriented quality multidisciplinary education, thereby blur 
existing boundaries between biology and engineering. B.Tech. Program in Biologically Inspired System Science (BISS) is 
run by this focus group in collaboration with the Department of Biology.
System Science (SS)
The System Science stream was initiated in 2011 to promote and implement interdisciplinary education and research 
by adopting a holistic systems thinking approach. Its vision is to transform students into trained graduates with the spirit 
of systems thinking in diverse domains of engineered systems, natural systems, and financial systems. The focus group 
runs an undergraduate program, B.Tech. in System Science (SS) in collaboration with the Department of Mathematics.
Annual Report 2016-17

Staff Members
Nine new Staff Members joined the Institute during the FY 2016-17. The following are the Staff Members engaged in 
various Offices and Departments of the Institute.
Administrative & Academic Staff Members
Office of Academics
Ashok Kumar Khanduri, Deputy Registrar
Gaurav Nigam, Superintendent
Abhay Kumar Awasthi, Junior Assistant
Rashmi Dhyani, Junior Assistant
Office of Accounts & Internal Audit
Manish Kumar Bhomia, Assistant Registrar
Ashish Kachhawaha, Superintendent
Naresh Chouhan, Junior Superintendent
Rakesh Kumar, Junior Assistant
Biswajit Pramanik, Junior Assistant
Sapna Sankhla, Junior Assistant
Office of Administration
Amardeep Sharma, Deputy Registrar
Sandeep Singh Chandel, Superintendent
Neeraj Kumar, Junior Assistant
Office of Alumni Relations & Student Placement
Amardeep Sharma, Deputy Registrar
Gaurav Nigam, Superintendent
Gurpreet Kaur Virdi, Assistant
Office of Director
Darsh Kumar Khatwani, Assistant
T. Madhavi Lata, Stenographer (on Deputation to IIT Tirupati)
Office of Establishment
Amardeep Sharma, Deputy Registrar
Sandeep Singh Chandel, Superintendent
Sharad Srivastava, Senior Assistant
Ajay Kumar Singh, Junior Assistant
Narayan Dadhich, Junior Assistant
Office of Infrastructure Engineering
Sanjeeb Mukherjee, Executive Engineer (Civil)
Vinay Kumar, Assistant Engineer (Electrical)
Chandresh Pareek, Junior Engineer (Civil)
Dheeraj Updhyay, Junior Assistant
Office of Infrastructure Management
Shashank Choudhary, Junior Assistant
Office of Library
Kshema Prakash, Deputy Librarian
Amit Kumar Soni, Senior Library & Information Assistant
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Chunni Chhatwani, Senior Library & Information Assistant
Kamleshkumar J. Patel, Senior Library & Information Assistant
Office of Planning
Amardeep Sharma, Deputy Registrar (Planning)
Trilotama Singh, Junior Assistant
Office of Recruitment
Sandeep Pareek, Junior Superintendent
Achinta Mondal, Junior Assistant
Office of Students, 
Ashok Kumar Khanduri, Deputy Registrar
Gaurav Nigam, Superintendent
Dhani Ram Choudhary, Stenographer
Swati Kushwaha, Junior Assistant
Ram Niwas Dhayal, Junior Assistant
Office of Stores & Purchase
Sharabh Pradhan, Junior Superintendent
Suresh Chandra Phulara, Junior Assistant
Technical Staff Members
Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Rimpesh Katiyar, Technical Superintendent
Dheerendra Kumar Yadav, Junior Technical Superintendent
Rinkesh Kumar Mangal, Junior Technical Superintendent
Poonam Chand Sankhla, Junior Technical Superintendent
Ram Singh Ratnu, Technician
Vivek Verma, Junior Technician
Department of Electrical Engineering
Bhanprakash Goswami, Junior Technical Superintendent
Gajraj Sharma, Junior Technician
Hemraj Dhodhawat, Junior Technician
Kailash Chander, Junior Technician
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Praveen Suthar, Junior Technician
Bhagya Wardhan, Junior Technician
Rambeer Singh, Junior Technician
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
Bharat Pareek, Junior Technical Superintendent
Poonam, Junior Technician
Department of Chemistry
Ganpat Chowdhary, Junior Technician
Shubham Pandey, Junior Technician
Department of Physics
Narendra Kumar Singh, Technical Superintendent
Annual Report 2016-17

S. No. Name of the Student Title of Thesis Supervisor Department Date of Defense
1. Abhay Samant Reconfigurable Architecture
for Cross Layer Design
Optimization and its
Applications Sandeep Yadav &
Venkata Ramana
Badarla Electrical
Engineering 25 April 2016
2. Suresh Singh Mitigation of Negative
Impedance Instabilities in
DC/DC Converters and DC
Microgrids using Nonlinear
Control Deepakkumar M.
Fulwani Electrical
Engineering 3 May 2016
3. Belal Usmani Development of Spectrally
Selective Absorber Materials
and Coatings for Photothermal
Applications Ambesh Dixit Physics 6 March 2017
Academics
Academic Programs
Currently, the Institute offers the following four sets of Programs:
1. Bachelor of Technology Programs:
1. B.Tech. (Computer Science and Engineering)
2. B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering)
3. B.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering)
2. Master of Science Programs
1. M.Sc. (Chemistry)
2. M.Sc. (Mathematics)
3. M.Sc. (Physics)
3. Master of Technology Programs
1. M.Tech. (Electrical Engieering)
2. M.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering)
4. Doctor of Philosophy Programs
1. Ph.D. with specialisation in Computer Science & Engineering
2. Ph.D. with specialisation in Electrical Engineering
3. Ph.D. with specialisation in Mechanical Engineering
4. Ph.D. with specialisation in Biology
5. Ph.D. with specialisation in Chemistry
6. Ph.D. with specialisation in Mathematics
7. Ph.D. with specialisation in Physics
8. Ph.D. with specialisation in Humanities & Social Sciences
Ph.D. Theses
Following Ph.D. Students defended their theses successfully in this year.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Collaborations with Academia
The Institute has signed Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) with six international universities, two international 
agencies, three national institutes and universities, and one national agency for furthering cooperation on specific 
fronts. These MoUs are:
(a) International Institutes and Universities
1. University of Western Ontario, Canada (9 August 2010)
To explore the possibilities for cooperation in education, training, and research and also to encourage direct 
contact and mutual cooperation between faculty members, departments, and research centers.
2. Universitat Rovira I Virgili, Tarrgona, Spain (29 August 2010)
For the development of mutually beneficial academic program and courses; coordination of academic staff travel 
for the purposes of teaching, research, and training; cooperation of student mobility program for study, research, and 
for joint academic activities such as research publications, conferences and symposia; exchange of documentation 
and research materials in the field of mutual interest provided that there are no legal barriers against exchange and 
collaboration in international master’s and doctoral programs between both the institutions.
3. University of Waterloo, Canada (25 November 2010)
For collaborative measures to foster international experience and advancement of knowledge on the basis of 
reciprocity, mutual benefit, interaction and exchange of students in graduate programs.
4. University of Manitoba, Canada (9 December 2010)
For the development of mutually beneficial programs for student internships and graduate study in order to 
provide students opportunities for advancement of knowledge and international experience.
5. University of California, Merced (26 April 2011)
For the development of mutually beneficial relationships for promoting academic exchange, scholarly cooperation, 
and collaborations under mutually agreeable terms and conditions: the exchange of faculty members, scientists and 
students and scientific material, access to library resources, pursuit of joint meetings, symposia and/or conferences 
and access to laboratories as may be appropriate and feasible in the two institutes.
6. Arid Forest Research Institute, Jodhpur, India (15 August 2011)
For the development of sheltering belt plantation as urban forestry model for at a selected site at IIT Jodhpur.
7. Institute of Science and Technology, Nara, Japan (28 February 2012)
To promote academic exchanges in fields where each party needs to enhance its educational and academic 
programs: the academic exchanges will include, implementation of collaborative research, joint symposia, lectures 
and education and exchange of scholars, researchers, and administrative staff; exchange of information in fields 
which are of interest to both parties and exchange of graduate students in fields of interest to both parties.
(b) International Agencies
1. The Commissariat a I’Energie Atomique et aux Energies Alternatives, France (22 November 2010)
To cooperate in areas of solar energy research, such as Concentrated Solar Power (CSP) and Concentrated 
Photovoltaic (CPV), water production by using solar energy, renewable energy storage and smart management, 
integration of solar energies and energy efficiency in buildings.
2. Embassy of France in India (28 March 2011)
To explore prospective domains for students and scholars to learn French language effectively.
Annual Report 2016-17

S. No. Speaker & Topic
1. S. Devarajan
Senior Vice President
TVS Motors
“Future of Manufacturing Technologies”
28 July 2016
2. Arun T. Ramchandani
Vice President
Larsen & Toubro Limited, Mumbai
“Defence Technologies and Products”
29 July 2016
3. A. K. Jindal
Head Engineering Commercial Vehicles
Tata Motors India
“Automotive Technologies”
01 August 2016
4. Prakash Rao Malathkar
Associate Chief Engineer
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
“Global Technological Advancement Trends of Automotive Passenger Car Powertrains”
05 August 2016
(c) National Institutes and Universities
1. All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur
To collaborate in various academic activities in the spheres of expertise.
2. National Law University, Jodhpur
To collaborate in various academic activities in the spheres of expertise.
3. Sardar Patel University of Police, Security, and Criminal Justice, Jodhpur (12 June 2013)
To promote academic exchanges in fields where each party needs to enhance its educational and academic 
programs.
Collaborations with Industry
IIT Jodhpur has initiated to collaborate with industry towards enhancing the learning experience of students and 
collaboration opportunities for Faculty Members. These include:
1. Vanguard Lectures; and
2. Industry Immersion Program.
Vanguard Lectures
The Vanguard Lecture Series is an integral part of Blended B.Tech. Program. It enables the Students to listen to 
inspirational talks given by experts from Industry and Academia, and to get a big-picture of the technological advances 
and emerging trends in different fields.
In the year 2016-17, two more series of Vanguard Lectures were organised since July 2016, namely:
1. Series 5: July 2016, and
2. Series 6: January 2017.
The following are the details of speakers and topics covered in the two series.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

5. Lipika Dey
Principal Scientist
Tata Consultancy Services
“Real Time Contextual Intelligence for Enterprises”
08 August 2016
6. Ashok Kumar Panda
Head, Core Technology
Tata Power Company Limited
“Overview of Challenges in Thermal Power & The Role of C&I in Power Industry”
09 August 2016
1. Shankar Iyer
Consulting Member
Oracle India
“Distributed Computing + Databases = Distributed Databases”
10 January 2017
2. Professor N. Ramakrishnan
Professor
IIT Gandhinagar
“Innovation, Design & Product Development”
20 January 2017
3. Professor Subir Kumar Saha
Professor and Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering
IIT Delhi
“R2: Robotics to Rural”
01 February 2017
Industry Immersion Program
In July 2014, when the Institute launched the blended Technical Education model at the B.Tech. level, the intent was 
to inspire students to build passion for technology to solve the grand technology challenges of the Indian Industry. One 
of the elements of the model is to have industry captains give the first lectures of each course to lay the cornerstone by 
giving the big-picture of sectoral technologies, industry needs and research opportunities. The model gained momentum 
with Vanguard Lecture Series, and now this has become a distinctive feature of the blended Technical Education Model for 
the B.Tech. Program of the Institute. Then, this is being followed by the Grand Technology Projects (GTPs) Competition 
that is held during January-March, every year. Most students prefer converting their B.Tech. Projects to GTPs.
Currently, five industry partners have joined the Industry Immersion Program at the B.Tech. level, namely:
(1) Mahindra & Mahindra Limited, Mumbai;
(2)	
 Larsen & Toubro Limited, Mumbai;
(3) Tata Motors Limited, Mumbai;
(4) TVS Motor Company Limited, Chennai; and
(5) Tata Power Limited, Mumbai.
Annual Report 2016-17

S. No. Project Title
1. Identifci ation, assessment and characterization of E3 ubiquitin ligases implicated in the neurodegenerative
diseases
Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India
PI: Amit Mishra
Rs. 74.5 Lakhs
2. Understanding the molecular function of MGRN1 in Chaperone Mediated Autophagy
Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India
PI: Amit Mishra
Rs. 41.19 Lakhs
3. How AMFR gene regulates cell division and cancer after stress exposure?
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Government of India
PI: Amit Mishra
Rs. 23.9 Lakhs
4. How LRASM1 gene regulates cellular protein quality control functions? Implications in
neurodegeneration and ageing
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Amit Mishra
Rs. 23.10 Lakhs
5. Bioremediation of low level wastes including denitrifci ation using microbial fuel cells
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Government of India
PI: Meenu Chhabra; Co-PI: Atul Kumar
Rs. 23.73 Lakhs
6. Development of low cost Microbial Carbon capture (MCC) cells for algae cultivation and
powers generation
Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India
PI: Meenu Chhabra
Rs. 172 Lakhs
7. Deposition of particulate matter in lungs
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Government of India
PI: Sushmita Jha
Rs. 24.79 Lakhs
8. Role of the inflammasome associated proteins in glioma
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Sushmita Jha
Rs. 22.30 Lakhs
9. Integrative Approach for Identifci ation of Disease Genes of Type II Diabetes
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Sushmita Paul
Rs. 26.76 Lakhs
Research
R & D Projects
The Faculty Members in the Institute are currently working on 55 sponsored research projects. Their details are:
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

10. Dual scale simulations of surfactant, co-surfactant water system
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Ananya Debnath
Rs. 21.7 Lakhs
11. Chemical Dynamics Simulations of Complex Organic Reactions
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Manikandan Paranjothy
Rs. 18.7 Lakhs
12. Catalytic Upgrading of Bio-Oil to Transport Fuel
Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma
Rs. 94.79 Lakhs
13. Development of electrochemical energy storage from carbon rich waste
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Ritu Gupta
Rs. 37.17 Lakhs
14. Design of efficient algorirthms for multiple choice resource allocation problem
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Aritra Banik
Rs. 9.78 Lakhs
15. Development of Multimodal Search Framework For Architeetural Floor Plan
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay
Rs. 24.5 Lakhs
16. Energy Efficient Technologies for Smart Buildings
The Indo-US Science and Technology Forum (IUSSTF), Department of Science & Technology, Government of India
PI: Venkata Ramana Badarla
Rs. 1.3 Crores
17. Enabling Technologies for Intelligent Wireless Sensor Network for Health and Environment Monitoring
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Anil Kumar Tiwari
Rs. 75 Lakhs
18. Visveswaraya Ph.D. Scholarship scheme for Electronics & IT
Department of Electronics & Information Technology (DeitY), Government of India
PI: Anil Kumar Tiwari
Rs. 16.25 Lakhs
19. Computationally efficient fxi ed complexity sphere decodes for multiuser MIMO
communications
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Arun Kumar Singh
Rs. 22.82 Lakhs
20. Development of Programmable Emulator for Photovoltaic Plant to Facilitate Complex Testing Requirements
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Deepakkumar M. Fulwani
Rs. 9.48 Lakhs
21. Development of Metal Doped TiO2 Low Dimension Structures by Sputtering for Gas Sensing Applications
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Government of India
PI: Mahesh Kumar
Rs. 17.46 Lakhs
Annual Report 2016-17

22. Ion-Beam Synthesis and Characterization of Gallium Nitride Based Nanocrystals embedded in Si based
Matrices for New-Generation Photodetector and Light-Emitter Applications
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Mahesh Kumar
Rs. 55.72 Lakhs
23. Development of mems based gas sensors using RF sputtered transition metal doped ZnO
Nanostructures
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Mahesh Kumar
Rs. 24.17 Lakhs
24. Development of Tunable RF Filter Based on Ferroelectric Thin Film by Sputtering
Indian National Science Academy
PI: Mahesh Kumar
Rs. 5 Lakhs
25. Noise-enhanced Edge-preserving Image Denoising using Stochastic Resonance
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Rajlaxmi Chouhan
Rs. 26.64 Lakhs
26. Algorithms for Blind Signal Detection and Demodulation
Defense Research & Development Organization (DRDO), Jodhpur, Government of India
PI: Sandeep Kumar Yadav
Rs. 55.24 Lakhs
27. Developing Dielectric Semiconductor Combinations and Processes for Flexible Organic
Electronics
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Shree Prakash Tiwari
Rs. 12.84 Lakhs
28. Design of a sensor signal conditioning system(I) & multiprocessor Scheduling Algorithms using control
theoretic Approach(II)
Department of Electronics & Information Technology (DeitY), Government of India
PI: Shree Prakash Tiwari
Rs. 99.72 Lakhs
29. Encapsulation of Organic devices by atomic layer deposition(DRDO CAR Proposal)
Defense Research & Development Organization (DRDO), Jodhpur, Government of India
PI: Shree Prakash Tiwari
Rs. 9.96 Lakhs
30. Wisdom as cognitive and motivational-emotional heuristics in ecologically rational decision making
Department of Science & Technology, Government of India
PI: Ankita Sharma
Rs. 22.3 Lakhs
31. Where the Bougainvillea Blooms: Stories of Place from a Resilient Landscape
M. R. A. R. Educational Foundation
PI: Vidya Sarveswaran
Rs. 0.5 Lakhs
32. Multimedia security based on biometrics for copyright protection and authentication
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB),
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Gaurav Bhatnagar
Rs. 22 Lakhs
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

33. Automorphism Groups of Induced Symbolic Systems
National Board for Higher Mathematics (NBHM), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Government of India
PI: Puneet Sharma
Rs. 3.32 Lakhs
34. Local Composite geotextile mats for soil and water conservation in western Rajasthan
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB),
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Anand Krishnan Plappally
Rs. 21.5 Lakhs
35. Unnat Bharat Abhiyan
Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD), Government of India
PI: Anand Krishnan Plappally
Rs. 3.77 Lakhs
36. Bifurcation and Stability Assessment of a Highly Lightweight Rotor-Bearing System with
Moving Platform
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Barun Pratiher
Rs. 21.8 Lakhs
37. Minimizing deflection induced surface errors in end milling of thin walled components
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB),
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Kaushalkumar A. Desai
Rs. 15.3 Lakhs
38. Establishment of the Centre of Excellence in Solar Thermal Research and Education
Ministry of New & Renewable Energy, Government of India
PI: Laltu Chandra
Rs. 40 Crores
39. IOC-BHEL-IITJ CSP Plant
Indian Oil Corporation Ltd.
PI: Laltu Chandra
Rs. 60 Lakhs
40. Thermal Design of PCM Cool and Warm Vest
Defense Research & Development Organization (DRDO), Jodhpur, Government of India
PI: Prodyut Ranjan Chakraborty
Rs. 9.96 Lakhs
41. Hybrid reactionless manipulation and visual serving of a satellite mounted robot for autonomous on orbit
services
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Suril Vijaykumar Shah
Rs. 35 Lakhs
42. Singularity free reactionless manipulation of a satellite mounted dual-arm robot for capture
of tumbling orbiting object
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Suril Vijaykumar Shah
Rs. 24.77 Lakhs
43. Development of III-Nitrides thin flim(s) for high frequency saw device applications
Department of Space, Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Rs. 22.62 Lakhs
Annual Report 2016-17

44. Development of Ferroelectric and their composite with hexaferrites for microwave absorption applications
Defense Research & Development Organization (DRDO), Jodhpur, Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Rs. 9.55 Lakhs
45. Investigation of Magnetoelectric coupling in Cu1-xTMxO Multiferroic System
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Rs. 23.42 Lakhs
46. Development of plasmonic metal hybrid electrode system for II-VI quantum dot sensitized
solar cells (QDSSCs) realization of carrier multiplication for better efficiency
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Rs. 32.87 Lakhs
47. Design and development of high capacity and low cost Li2TMSio4(TM=transition metals) silicate materials
for future rechargeable lithium ion battery
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Rs. 23.88 Lakhs
48. Probing Magnetic Structures and Spin Flop transition in bulk and nanostructured FeVo4
Multiferroic System
UGC-DAE, Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
49. Devolopment of nanostructured Cu2ZnSn(S/Se)4 thin flims and their electronic properties for next
genration solar photovoltaic applications
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Rs. 37.22 Lakhs
50. Hunting of New Physics Through b-> S Transitions
Council of Scientifci & Industrial Research (CSIR), Government of India
PI: Ashutosh K. Alok
Co-PI: Subhashish Banerjee Rs. 11.92 Lakhs
51. Synchrony Based Evolution of Various Biological and Artifci ial Systems to Understand Complex
Computational Aspects
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Satyajit Sahu
Rs. 35 Lakhs
52. Application specialty optical fbi res and towards 1D random lasers in disordered lattices
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Somnath Ghosh
Rs. 35 Lakhs
53. Graph Theoretical Aspects in Quantum Information Processing
Council of Scientifci and Industrial Research (CSIR), Government of India
PI: Subhashish Banerjee
Rs. 9.92 Lakhs
54. A Study of quantum correlations : Squeezing and its various facets
Council of Scientifci and Industrial Research (CSIR), Government of India
PI: Subhashish Banerjee
Rs. 5.10 Lakhs
55. Probing the Foundations of Quantum Mechanics in Neutrino Oscillations
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Subhashish Banerjee
Rs. 10.08 Lakhs
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Department Patents
Filed Journal
Articles Conference
Papers Preprints Books Book
Chapters Total
Bioscience & Bioengineering 12 2 14
Chemistry 2 15 17
Computer Science & Engineering 3 6 1 10
Electrical Engineering 19 8 1 28
Humanities & Social Sciences 4 4
Mathematics 3 2 1 6
Mechanical Engineering 15 3 1 19
Physics 18 3 8 29
Total 2 89 20 12 1 3 124
Patents & Publications
In 2016-17, our Faculty Members have filed 2 patents, published 89 research papers and articles in scholarly journals; 
20 of their works have been covered as conference presentations and in conference proceedings; 12 preprints, 1 authored 
book and 3 book chapters have been contributed.
Annual Report 2016-17

1. Amanullah, A., Upadhyay, A., Chhangani, D., Joshi, V., Mishra, R., Yamanaka, K., & Mishra, A. (2016).
Proteasomal Dysfunction Induced by Diclofenac Engenders Apoptosis through Mitochondrial Pathway. Journal of
Cellular Biochemistry. ISSN: 1097-4644.
http://doi.org/10.1002/jcb.25666
2. Anand, B. G., Dubey, K., Shekhawat, D. S., & Kar, K. (2016). Capsaicin-coated silver nanoparticles inhibit amyloid
fbi ril formation of serum albumin. Biochemistry. ISSN: 0006-2960.
http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.biochem.6b00418
3. Arora, N., Tripathi, S., Sao, R., Mondal, P., Mishra, A. K., & Prasad, A. (2017). Molecular Neuro-Pathomechanism
of Neurocysticercosis: How Host Genetic Factors Inful ence Disease Susceptibility. Molecular Neurobiology, 1–7.
ISSN: 1559-1182.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12035-016-0373-6
4. Harinipriya, S., Kalra, A., & Mishra, A. K. (2016). Physiochemical Characterization of tubulin from Arachis
hypogaea. Synthetic Metals, 220, 86–94. ISSN: 0379-6779. http://doi.org/10.1016/j.synthmet.2016.04.021
5. Hoop, C. L., Lin, H.-K., Kar, K., Magyarfalvi, G., Lamley, J. M., Boatz, J. C., Mandal, A., Lewandowski, J. R.,
Wetzel, R. & Van der Wel, P. C. A. (2016). Huntingtin exon 1 fbi rils feature an interdigitated β-hairpin–based
polyglutamine core. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 113(6), 1546–1551. ISSN: 1091-6490.
https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1521933113
6. Jha, S., Brickey, W. J., & Ting, J. P.-Y. (2017). Infal mmasomes in Myeloid Cells: Warriors Within. Microbiology
Spectrum, 5(1). ISSN: 2165-0497.
https://doi.org/10.1128/microbiolspec.MCHD-0049-2016
7. Joshi, V., Amanullah, A., Upadhyay, A., Mishra, R., Kumar, A., & Mishra, A. (2016). A Decade of Boon or Burden:
What Has the CHIP Ever Done for Cellular Protein Quality Control Mechanism Implicated in Neurodegeneration
and Aging? Frontiers in Molecular Neuroscience, 93. ISSN: 1662-5099.
https://doi.org/10.3389/fnmol.2016.00093
8. Paul, S., Lakatos, P., Hartmann, A., Schneider-Stock, R., & Vera, J. (2017). Identifci ation of miRNA-mRNA
Modules in Colorectal Cancer Using Rough Hypercuboid Based Supervised Clustering. Scientific Reports, 7,
42809. ISSN: 2045-2322.
https://doi.org/10.1038/srep42809
9. Saxena, S., & Jha, S. (2017). Role of NOD- like Receptors in Glioma Angiogenesis: Insights into future therapeutic
interventions. Cytokine & Growth Factor Reviews. ISSN: 1359-6101.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cytogfr.2017.02.001
10. Sharma, N., Suresh, S., Debnath, A., & Jha, S. (2017). Trigonella seed extract ameliorates infal mmation via
regulation of the infal mmasome adaptor protein, ASC. Frontiers in Bioscience (Elite Edition), 9, 246–257. ISSN:
1945-0508.
https://www.bioscience.org/2017/v9e/af/799/fulltext.htm
11. Upadhyay, A., Amanullah, A., Mishra, R., Kumar, A., & Mishra, A. K. (2017). Lanosterol Suppresses the
Aggregation and Cytotoxicity of Misfolded Proteins Linked with Neurodegenerative Diseases. Molecular
Neurobiology, 1–14. ISSN: 1559-1182.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12035-016-0377-2
12. Vyas, S., & Chhabra, M. (2017). Isolation, identifci ation and characterization of Cystobasidium oligophagum JRC1:
A cellulase and lipase producing oleaginous yeast. Bioresource Technology, 223, 250–258. ISSN: 0960-8524.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biortech.2016.10.039
1. Maji, P., & Paul, S. (2016). Fundamentals of Rough-Fuzzy Clustering and Its Application in Bioinformatics. In
Pattern Recognition and Big Data (Vols. 1–0, pp. 513–543). World Scientific. ISBN: 978-981-314-454-5.
https://doi.org/10.1142/9789813144552_0015
The following is the department-wise list of patents and publications.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

2. Upadhyay, A., Amanullah, A., Joshi, V., Mishra, R., & Mishra, A. K. (2016). Molecular and Cellular Insights:
Neuroinfal mmation and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis. In N. Jana, A. Basu, & P. N. Tandon (Eds.), Infal mmation:
the Common Link in Brain Pathologies (pp. 209–230). Springer Singapore. ISBN: 978-981-10-1711-7.
http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-981-10-1711-7_8
1. Title
“Sub-zero Temperature process for production of high surface area, phase and dimensionally controlled
nano-titania for solar cell and water treatment application thereof”
Inventors Rakesh K. Sharma & Kiran Prakash Shejale
Patent Application Number 201611022531
Date 08 June 2016
2. Title
“Facet controlled preparation of metal hexagonal nano crystal/carbon materials catalyst and application
thereof”
Inventors Rakesh K. Sharma & Poonam Darshana Sharma
Patent Application Number 201611022543
Date 08 June 2016
1. Gupta, N., Rao, K. D. M., Gupta, R., Krebs, F. C., & Kulkarni, G. U. (2017). Highly Conformal Ni Micromesh as a
Current Collecting Front Electrode for Reduced Cost Si Solar Cell. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces, 9(10),
8634–8640. ISSN: 1944-8252.
https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b12588
2. Gupta, R., & Fisher, T. S. (2016). Scalable Coating of Single Source Ni Hexadecanethiolate Precursor on
3D-Graphitic Petals for Asymmetric Supercapacitor. Energy Technology. ISSN: 2194-4296.
http://doi.org/10.1002/ente.201600475
3. Gupta, R., Kumar, A., Sadasivam, S., Walia, S., Kulkarni, G. U., Fisher, T. S., & Marconnet, A. M. (2017).
Microscopic Evaluation of Electrical and Thermal Conduction in Random Metal Wire Networks. ACS Applied
Materials & Interfaces. ISSN: 1944-8252.
https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.7b00342
4. Gupta, R., Rao, K. D. M., Kiruthika, S., & Kulkarni, G. U. (2016). Visibly Transparent Heaters. ACS Applied
Materials & Interfaces, 8(20), 12559–12575. ISSN: 1944-8244.
http://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.5b11026
5. Laishram, D., Shejale, K. P., Sharma, R. K., & Gupta, R. (2016). HfO2 nanodots incorporated in TiO2 and its
hydrogenation for high performance dye sensitized solar cells. RSC Advances, 6(82), 78768–78773. ISSN: 2046-2069.
http://doi.org/10.1039/C6RA13776H
6. Lunkad, R., Srivastava, A., & Debnath, A. (2017). Inful ence of water concentrations on the phase transformation
of a model surfactant/co-surfactant/water system. Chemical Physics, 483–484, 103–111.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chemphys.2016.11.014
7. Pandey, S., Soni, V. K., Choudhary, G., Sharma, P. R., & Sharma, R. K. (2016). Understanding Behaviour of
Vitamin-C Guest Binding with the Cucurbit[6]uril host. Supramolecular Chemistry, 29(5), 387-394. ISSN: 1061-0278.
https://doi.org/10.1080/10610278.2016.1243791
8. Ram, P., Gören, A., Ferdov, S., Silva, M. M., Singhal, R., Costa, C. M., Sharma, R. K. & Lanceros-Méndez, S.
(2016). Improved performance of rare earth doped LiMn2O4 cathodes for lithium-ion battery applications. New
Journal of Chemistry. ISSN: 1369-9261.
http://doi.org/10.1039/C6NJ00198J
9. RRam, P., Gören, A., Ferdov, S., Silva, M. M., Choudhary, G., Singhal, R., Costa, C. M., Sharma, R. K. &
Lanceros-Méndez, S. (2017) (2017). Synthesis and improved electrochemical performance of LiMn2 – xGdxO4
based cathodes. Solid State Ionics, 300, 18–25. ISSN: 0167-2738.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ssi.2016.11.026
Annual Report 2016-17

10. Sharma, P., & Sharma, R. K. (2016). Asymmetric Hydrogenation of α-ketoesters on Pt(111) Surface. New Journal
of Chemistry. ISSN: 1369-9261.
https://doi.org/10.1039/C6NJ02405Jb
11. Sharma, P., & Sharma, R. K. (2017). Platinum functionalized Chiral Polyamides: Efcfi ient Heterogeneous Catalyst
for Solvent Free Asymmetric Hydrogenation of Ethyl 2-oxo-4-phenylbutanoate. ChemistrySelect, 2(1), 513–520.
ISSN: 2365-6549.
https://doi.org/10.1002/slct.201601538
12. Shejale, K. P., Laishram, D., Gupta, R., & Sharma, R. K. (2016). Zinc Oxide–Titania Heterojunction-based Solid
Nanospheres as Photoanodes for Electron-Trapping in Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells. Energy Technology. ISSN: 2194-
4296.
http://doi.org/10.1002/ente.201600357
13. Singh, P., Adhikari, S., & Kumar, A. (2016.). Usefulness of Multiqubit w-type States in Quantum Information
Processing. Journal of Experimental and Theoretical Physics, 150 (4), 666-676.
http://www.jetp.ac.ru/cgi-bin/e/index/forthcoming/60557?a=list
14. Soni, V. K., & Sharma, R. K. (2016). Palladium-Nanoparticles-Intercalated Montmorillonite Clay: A Green Catalyst
for the Solvent-Free Chemoselective Hydrogenation of Squalene. ChemCatChem.
http://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201600210
15. Walia, S., Gupta, R., Rao, K. D. M., & Kulkarni, G. U. (2016). Transparent Pd Wire Network-Based Areal Hydrogen
Sensor with Inherent Joule Heater. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces, 8(35), 23419–23424.
http://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b08275
1. Amayri, M., Arora, A., Ploix, S., Bandhyopadyay, S., Ngo, Q.-D., & Badarla, V. R. (2016). Estimating Occupancy
in Heterogeneous Sensor Environment. Energy and Buildings, 129, 46–58. ISSN: 0378-7788.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2016.07.026
2. Kalshetti, P., Bundele, M., Rahangdale, P., Jangra, D., Chattopadhyay, C., Harit, G., & Elhence, A. (2017). An
interactive medical image segmentation framework using iterative refni ement. Computers in Biology and
Medicine, 83, 22–33. ISSN: 0010-4825.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compbiomed.2017.02.002
3. Rathore, H., Badarla, V. R., & Shit, S. (2016). Consensus-Aware Sociopsychological Trust Model for Wireless
Sensor Networks. ACM Trans. Sen. Netw., 12(3), 21:1–21:27. ISSN: 1550-4867.
http://doi.org/10.1145/2903721
1. Bandyapadhyay, S., & Banik, A. (2017). Polynomial Time Algorithms for Bichromatic Problems. In Algorithms
and Discrete Applied Mathematics (pp. 12–23). Springer, Cham. ISBN: 978-3-319-53007-9.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-53007-9_2
2. Banik, A., Panolan, F., Badarla, V. R., & Sahlot, V. (2016). Fréchet Distance Between a Line and Avatar Point Set.
In A. Lal, S. Akshay, S. Saurabh, & S. Sen (Eds.), 36th IARCS Annual Conference on Foundations of Software
Technology and Theoretical Computer Science (FSTTCS 2016) (Vol. 65, p. 32:1–32:14). Dagstuhl, Germany:
Schloss Dagstuhl–Leibniz-Zentrum fuer Informatik.
https://doi.org/http://dx.doi.org/10.4230/LIPIcs.FSTTCS.2016.32
3. Dey, A. U., & Harit, G. (2016). Generating Synthetic Handwriting Using N-gram Letter Glyphs. In Ahuja, Narendra
& Bora, Prabin K. (Eds.), Proceedings of the Tenth Indian Conference on Computer Vision, Graphics and
Image Processing (p. 49:1–49:8). New York, USA: Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN: 978-1-4503-
4753-2.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3009977.3010042
4. Jain, H., & Harit, G. (2016). A Framework to Assess Sun Salutation Videos. In In Ahuja, Narendra & Bora, Prabin
K. (Eds.), Proceedings of the Tenth Indian Conference on Computer Vision, Graphics and Image Processing
(p. 29:1–29:8). New York, USA: Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN: 978-1-4503-4753-2.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3009977.3010045
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

5. Sharma, D., Chattopadhyay, C., & Harit, G. (2016). A unifei d framework for semantic matching of architectural
fol orplans. In 2016 23rd International Conference on Pattern Recognition (ICPR) (pp. 2422–2427). ISBN: 978-1-
5090-4847-2.
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICPR.2016.7899999
6. Sharma, K., & Badarla, V. (2016). FlowFurl: A fol w-level routing for faulty data center networks. In 2016 IEEE
International Conference on Advanced Networks and Telecommunications Systems (ANTS) (pp. 1–6). ISBN:
978-1-5090-2193-2.
https://doi.org/10.1109/ANTS.2016.7947837
1. Bansal, A., Roy, S. D., & Harit, G. (2016). Extraction of Layout Entities and Sub-layout Query-based Retrieval of
Document Images. arXiv:1609.02687 [Cs].
http://arxiv.org/abs/1609.02687
1. Barala, S. S., Banerjee, N., & Kumar, M. (2016). Efef ct of Gamma Ray Irradiation on Epitaxial Pb(Zr,Ti)O3 /SrRuO3
Tunable Varactor Devices. Journal of Electronic Materials, 45(8), 4122–4128. ISSN: 0361-5235.
http://doi.org/10.1007/s11664-016-4655-6
2. Barala, S. S., Roul, B., Banerjee, N., & Kumar, M. (2016). Modulation of Pb Chemical state of epitaxial lead
zirconate titanate thin flims under high energy irradiation. Journal of Applied Physics, 120(11), 115305. ISSN:
1089-7550.
https://doi.org/10.1063/1.4962860
3. Bharti, D., & Tiwari, S. P. (2016). Phase separation induced high mobility and electrical stability in organic fei ld-
efef ct transistors. Synthetic Metals. 221, 186-191. ISSN: 0379-6779.
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.synthmet.2016.09.002
4. Bharti, D., Raghuwanshi, V., Varun, I., Mahato, A. K., & Tiwari, S. P. (2016). High Performance and Electro-
Mechanical Stability in Small Molecule: Polymer Blend Flexible Organic Field-Efef ct Transistors. IEEE Electron
Device Letters, PP(99), 1–1.
http://doi.org/10.1109/LED.2016.2592943
5. Dokania, V., Islam, A., Dixit, V., & Tiwari, S. P. (2016). Analytical Modeling of Wrap-Gate Carbon Nanotube FET
With Parasitic Capacitances and Density of States. IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices, PP(99), 1–6. ISSN:
0018-9383.
http://doi.org/10.1109/TED.2016.2581119
6. Joshi, V., Soni, A., Tiwari, S. P., & Shrivastava, M. (2016). A Comprehensive Computational Modeling Approach
and Device Design Guidelines for AlGaN/GaN HEMTs: Part I. IEEE Transactions on Nanotechnology, 1–1. ISSN:
1941-0085.
https://doi.org/10.1109/TNANO.2016.2615645
7. Korolev, D. S., Mikhaylov, A. N., Belov, A. I., Konakov, A. A., Vasiliev, V. K., Nikolitchev, D. E., Surodin, S. I.,
Tetelbaum, D. I. & Kumar, M. (2017). Composition and luminescence of Si and SiO2 layers co-implanted with Ga
and N ions. International Journal of Nanotechnology, 14(7–8), 637–645. ISSN: 1475-7435.
https://doi.org/10.1504/IJNT.2017.083438
8. Kumar, M., Bhati, V. S., Ranwa, S., Singh, J., & Kumar, M. (2017). Pd/ZnO nanorods based sensor for highly
selective detection of extremely low concentration hydrogen. Scientific Reports, 7(1), 236. ISSN: 2045-2322.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-017-00362-x
9. Lu, H. f, Elia, P., & Singh, A. K. (2016). Performance-Complexity Analysis for MAC ML-Based Decoding With User
Selection. IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, 64(7), 1867–1880. ISSN: 1053-587X.
http://doi.org/10.1109/TSP.2015.2508788
10. Mahela, O. P., & Shaik, A. G. (2016). Power quality improvement in distribution network using DSTATCOM with
battery energy storage system. International Journal of Electrical Power & Energy Systems, 83, 229–240.
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2016.04.011
Annual Report 2016-17

11. Mahela, O. P., & Shaik, A. G. (2017). Comprehensive overview of grid interfaced solar photovoltaic systems.
Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 68, Part 1, 316–332. ISSN: 1364-0321.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2016.09.096
12. Mahela, O. P., & Shaik, A. G. (2017). Power quality recognition in distribution system with solar energy
penetration using S-transform and Fuzzy C-means clustering. Renewable Energy, 106, 37-51. ISSN: 1879-0682.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2016.12.098
13. Meng, L., Shafiee, Q., Trecate, G. F., Karimi, H., Fulwani, D. M., Lu, X., & Guerrero, J. M. (2017). Review on
Control of DC Microgrids. IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics, PP(99), 1–1.
ISSN: 2168-6777.
https://doi.org/10.1109/JESTPE.2017.2690219
14. Raghuwanshi, V., Bharti, D., Varun, I., Mahato, A. K., & Tiwari, S. P. (2016). Performance enhancement in
mechanically stable fel xible organic-fei ld efef ct transistors with TIPS-pentacene: polymer blend. Organic
Electronics, 34, 284–288. ISSN: 1566-1199.
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.orgel.2016.04.039
15. Ranwa, S., Barala, S. S., Fanetti, M., & Kumar, M. (2016). Efef ct of gamma irradiation on Schottky-contacted
vertically aligned ZnO nanorod-based hydrogen sensor. Nanotechnology, 27(34), 345502. ISSN: 1361-6528.
http://doi.org/10.1088/0957-4484/27/34/345502
16. Rathore, B., & Shaik, A. G. (2017). Wavelet-alienation based transmission line protection scheme. IET
Generation, Transmission & Distribution, 11(4), 995–1003. ISSN: 1751-8695.
https://doi.org/10.1049/iet-gtd.2016.1022
17. Shetty, A., Kumar, M., Roul, B., Vinoy, K. J., & Krupanidhi, S. B. (2016). InN Quantum Dot Based Infra-Red
Photodetectors. Journal of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology, 16(1), 709–714. ISSN: 1533-4880.
http://doi.org/10.1166/jnn.2016.10679
18. Singh, S., Gautam, A. R., & Fulwani, D. M. (2017). Constant power loads and their efef cts in DC distributed
power systems: A review. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 72, 407–421. ISSN: 1364-0321.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2017.01.027
19. Tripathi, S., Mohan, A., & Yadav, S. K. (2016). A Compact UWB Koch Fractal Antenna for UWB Antenna Array
Applications. Wireless Personal Communications, 1–20. ISSN: 0929-6212.
http://doi.org/10.1007/s11277-016-3613-1
1. Bhandari, M., Fulwani, D. M., & Gupta, R. (2017). Event triggered control of two time scale system. In 2017
Indian Control Conference (ICC) (pp. 309–314). ISBN: 978-1-5090-1795-9.
https://doi.org/10.1109/INDIANCC.2017.7846493
2. Bhandari, M., Fulwani, D. M., & Gupta, R. (2017). Event triggered control of singularly perturbec linear system
based on its slow and fast model. In 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT) (pp.
791–796). Toronto, ON, Canada. ISBN: 978-1-5090-5320-9.
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICIT.2017.7915460
3. Gautam, A. R., Fulwani, D. M. & Guerrero, J. (2016). A comprehensive study and analysis of second order
harmonic ripple in DC microgrid feeding single phase PWM inverter loads. In IECON 2016 - 42nd Annual
Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society (pp. 3648–3653). ISBN: 978-1-5090-3474-1.
https://doi.org/10.1109/IECON.2016.7793830
4. Mahela, O. P., & Shaik, A. G. (2016). Recognition of power quality disturbances using S-transform and Fuzzy
C-means clustering. In 2016 International Conference on Cogeneration, Small Power Plants and District Energy
(ICUE) (pp. 1–6). ISBN: 978-9-7482-5792-1.
https://doi.org/10.1109/COGEN.2016.7728955
5. Mahia, R. N., & Fulwani, D. M. (2017). Selection of optimal set of driver nodes based on networked sensitivity in
complex networked systems. In 2017 Indian Control Conference (ICC) (pp. 332–337). ISBN: 978-1-5090-1795-9.
https://doi.org/10.1109/INDIANCC.2017.7846497
6. Rathore, N., & Fulwani, D. M. (2016). Event triggered control scheme for power converters. In IECON 2016 -
42nd Annual Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society (pp. 1342–1347). ISBN: 978-1-5090-3474-1.
https://doi.org/10.1109/IECON.2016.7794129
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

7. Singh, M., & Shaik, A. G. (2016). Bearing fault diagnosis of a three phase induction motor using stockwell
transform. In 2016 IEEE Annual India Conference (INDICON) (pp. 1–6). ISBN: 978-1-5090-3646-2.
https://doi.org/10.1109/INDICON.2016.7838972
8. Sree, Y. M., Kumar, G. R., & Shaik, A. G. (2016). Multi-terminal transmission line protection using wavelet based
digital relay in the presence of wind energy source. In 2016 International Conference on Electrical, Electronics,
and Optimization Techniques (ICEEOT) (pp. 4124–4128). ISBN: 978-1-4673-9939-5.
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICEEOT.2016.7755492
1. Fulwani, D. M., & Singh, S. (2017). Mitigation of Negative Impedance Instabilities in DC Distribution Systems.
Singapore: Springer Singapore. ISBN: 978-981-10-2071-1.
http://link.springer.com/10.1007/978-981-10-2071-1
1. Narayanan, V. H. (2016). Voice in the Head: The Road Ahead. Journal of Indian Council of Philosophical
Research, 1–16.ISSN: 0970-7794.
http://doi.org/10.1007/s40961-016-0057-7
2. Owusu, D., Mamudu, H. M., John, R. M., Ibrahim, A., Ouma, A. E. O., & Veeranki, S. P. (2016). Never-Smoking
Adolescents’ Exposure to Secondhand Smoke in Africa. American Journal of Preventive Medicine, 51(6),
983–998. ISSN: 0749-3797.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.amepre.2016.08.040
3. Thimm, V., Chaudhuri, M., & Mahler, S. J. (2017). Enhancing Intersectional Analyses with Polyvocality: Making
and Illustrating the Model. Social Sciences, 6(2), 37. ISSN: 2076-0760.
https://doi.org/10.3390/socsci6020037
4. Veeranki, S. P., John, R. M., Ibrahim, A., Pillendla, D., Thrasher, J. F., Owusu, D., Ouma, A. E. O., and Mamudu,
H. M. (2016). Age of smoking initiation among adolescents in Africa. International Journal of Public Health,
1–10. ISSN: 1661-8564.
http://doi.org/10.1007/s00038-016-0888-7
1. Bhatnagar, G. (2016). Robust covert communication using high capacity watermarking. Multimedia Tools and
Applications, 1–25. ISSN: 1573-7721.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11042-016-3978-x
2. Chakrawarty, P., & Bhatnagar, G. (2016). Image thresholding based on local activity feature matrix. Optik -
International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, 127(20), 9037–9045. ISSN: 0030-4026.
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2016.06.114
3. Li, H., Hiremath, K. R., Rieder, A., & Freude, W. (2017). Adaptive wavelet collocation method for simulation of a 2D
micro-ring resonator. Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, 131, 655–670. ISSN: 0030-4026.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijleo.2016.11.154
1. Singh, S. P., & Bhatnagar, G. (2017). A Novel Chaos Based Robust Watermarking Framework. In B. Raman, S.
Kumar, P. P. Roy, & D. Sen (Eds.), Proceedings of International Conference on Computer Vision and Image
Processing (pp. 439–447). Springer Singapore. ISBN: 978-981-10-2107-7.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-2107-7_40
1. Sharma, P. (2017). Induced Dynamics of Non-Autonomous Discrete Dynamical Systems. arXiv:1703.05897 [Math].
http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.05897
2. Sharma, P., & Raghav, M. (2017). On Dynamics Generated by a Uniformly Convergent Sequence of Maps.
arXiv:1703.06640 [Math].
http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.06640
Annual Report 2016-17

1. Aggarwal, H. K., Chhibber, R., Arora, N., & Mehta, R. (2017). Experimental Analysis of Thermal Fatigue in
Bimetallic Welds. Materials Science Forum, 880, 124–127. ISSN: 1662-9752.
https://doi.org/10.4028/www.scientific.net/MSF.880.124
2. Bhandari, D., Chhibber, R., Arora, N., & Mehta, R. (2016). Investigation of TiO2–SiO2–CaO–CaF2 based electrode
coatings on weld metal chemistry and mechanical behaviour of bimetallic welds. Journal of Manufacturing
Processes, 23, 61–74. ISSN: 1526-6125.
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmapro.2016.05.013
3. Chakraborty, P. R. (2017). Enthalpy porosity model for melting and solidifci ation of pure-substances with large
difef rence in phase specifci heats. International Communications in Heat and Mass Transfer, 81,183-189. ISSN:
0735-1933.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.icheatmasstransfer.2016.12.023
4. Chakraborty, P. R., Hiremath, K. R., & Sharma, M. (2016, in press). Evaluation of evaporation coefcfi ient for
micro-droplets exposed to low pressure: A semi-analytical approach. Physics Letters A. ISSN: 0375-9601.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physleta.2016.11.036
5. Hafez, A. H. A., Mithun, P., Anurag, V. V., Shah, S. V., & Krishna, K. M. (2017). Reactionless visual servoing of a
multi-arm space robot combined with other manipulation tasks. Robotics and Autonomous Systems, 91, 1-10.
ISSN: 0921-8890.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.robot.2016.12.010
6. Harsha, C. S., Prasanth, C. S. R., & Pratiher, B. (2016). Efef ct of Squeeze Film Damping and AC Actuation Voltage
on Pull-in Phenomenon of Electrostatically Actuated Microswitch. Procedia Engineering, 144, 891–899. ISSN:
1877-7058.
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.proeng.2016.05.108
7. Harsha, C. S., Prasanth, C. S., & Pratiher, B. (2016). Prediction of pull-in phenomena and structural stability
analysis of an electrostatically actuated microswitch. Acta Mechanica, 1–18. ISSN: 1619-6937.
http://doi.org/10.1007/s00707-016-1633-2
8. James, F., Shah, S. V., Singh, A. K., Krishna, K. M., & Misra, A. K. (2016). Reactionless Maneuvering of a Space
Robot in Precapture Phase. Journal of Guidance, Control, and Dynamics, 0(0), 1–7. ISSN: 1533-3884.
http://doi.org/10.2514/1.G001828
9. Moges, T. M., Desai, K. A., & Rao, P. V. M. (2016). Improved Process Geometry Model with Cutter Runout and
Elastic Recovery in Micro-end Milling. Procedia Manufacturing, 5, 478–494. ISSN: 2351-9789.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.promfg.2016.08.040
10. Phadatare, H. P., & Pratiher, B. (2016). Nonlinear Frequencies and Unbalanced Response Analysis of High Speed
Rotor-Bearing Systems. Procedia Engineering, 144, 801–809. ISSN: 1877-7058.
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.proeng.2016.05.089
11. Rajpurohit, D. S. & Chhibber, R. (2016). Design Optimization of Two Input Multimode Applicator for Efcfi ient
Microwave Heating. International Journal of Advances in Microwave Technology, 1 (3). ISSN: 2456-4346.
http://ijamt.com/abstract.php?article_id=1676
12. Rao, S. S., Chhibber, R., Arora, K. S., & Shome, M. (2017; In press). Resistance spot welding of galvannealed
high strength interstitial free steel. Journal of Materials Processing Technology. ISSN: 0924-0136.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmatprotec.2017.03.027
13. Saha, A. K., Kumar, R., Usmani, B., Chandra, L., & Dixit, A. (2016). Development Of Nickel Modifei d Fe 3 O 4
Solar Selective Coatings for Solar Absorber Applications. Advanced Materials Proceedings, 1(2), 140–145. ISSN:
2002-4428.
https://doi.org/10.5185/amp.2016/205
14. Saini, A., Chhibber, R., & Chattopadhyay, A. (2016). Efef ct of combined fatigue and hygrothermal loading on
structural properties of E-glass/polymers. Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part C:
Journal of Mechanical Engineering Science. ISSN: 0954-4062.
http://doi.org/10.1177/0954406216644268
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

15. Sharma, B., Chhibber, R., & Mehta, R. (2017). Curing studies and mechanical properties of glass fbi er reinforced
composites based on silanized clay minerals. Applied Clay Science, 138, 89–99. ISSN: 0169-1317.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clay.2016.12.038
1. Agarwal, A., & Prakash, A. (2016). Validation of LBM based on BGK on Poiseuille’s Flow and Vortex Street in a
Channel Flow. In Fourth International Conference On Advances in Civil, Structural and Mechanical Engineering
(pp. 14–18). USA: Institute of Research
2. Salunkhe, D. H., Sharma, S., Topno, S. A., Darapaneni, C., Kankane, A., & Shah, S. V. (2016). Design, trajectory
generation and control of quadrotor research platform. In 2016 International Conference on Robotics and
Automation for Humanitarian Applications (RAHA) (pp. 1–7). ISBN: 978-1-5090-5203-5.
https://doi.org/10.1109/RAHA.2016.7931876
3. Teja, H., & Shah, S. V. (2016). Learning inverse kinematic solutions of redundant manipulators using multiple
internal models. In 2016 6th IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Robotics and Biomechatronics
(BioRob) (pp. 1371–1371). ISBN: 978-1-5090-3287-7.
http://doi.org/10.1109/BIOROB.2016.7523824
1. Bhole, A., Turlapati, S. H., Rajashekhar, V. S., Dixit, J., Shah, S. V., & Krishna,K. M. (2016). Design of a Robust
Stair Climbing Compliant Modular Robot to Tackle Overhang on Stairs. arXiv:1607.03077 [Cs].
http://arxiv.org/abs/1607.03077
1. Adhikari, B., Banerjee, S., Adhikari, S., & Kumar, A. (2017). Laplacian matrices of weighted digraphs represented
as quantum states. Quantum Information Processing, 16(3), 79. ISSN: 1573-1332.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11128-017-1530-1
2. Alok, A. K., Banerjee, S., & Uma Sankar, S. (2016). Quantum correlations in terms of neutrino oscillation
probabilities. Nuclear Physics B, 909, 65–72. ISSN: 0550-3213.
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.nuclphysb.2016.05.001
3. Banerjee, S., Alok, A. K., & Omkar, S. (2016). Quantum Fisher and skew information for Unruh accelerated Dirac
qubit. The European Physical Journal C, 76(8). ISSN: 1434-6052.
http://doi.org/10.1140/epjc/s10052-016-4290-7
4. Banerjee, S., Alok, A. K., Omkar, S., & Srikanth, R. (2017). Characterization of Unruh channel in the context of
open quantum systems. Journal of High Energy Physics, 2017(2), 82. ISSN: 1029-8479. https://doi.org/10.1007/
JHEP02(2017)082
5. Dutta, S., Adhikari, B., Banerjee, S., & Srikanth, R. (2016). Bipartite separability and nonlocal quantum
operations on graphs. Physical Review A, 94(1), 12306. ISSN: 2469-9934.
http://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevA.94.012306
6. Ghosh, S., Sahu, S., Agrawal, L., Shiga, T., & Bandyopadhyay, A. (2017). Inventing a co-axial atomic resolution
patch clamp to study a single resonating protein complex and ultra-low power communication deep inside a
living neuron cell. Journal of Integrative Neuroscience, 1–31. ISSN: 0219-6352.
https://doi.org/10.1142/S0219635216500321
7. Gupta, G. K., & Dixit, A. (2017). Efef ct of precursor and composition on the physical properties of the low-
cost solution processed Cu2ZnSnS4 thin flim for solar photovoltaic application. Journal of Renewable and
Sustainable Energy, 9(1), 013502-1- 013502-10. ISSN: 1941-7012.
https://doi.org/10.1063/1.4974341
8. Laha, A., & Ghosh, S. (2017). Connected hidden singularities and toward successive state filpping in degenerate
optical microcavities. Journal of the Optical Society of America B, 34(2), 238–244. ISSN: 1520-8540.
https://doi.org/10.1364/JOSAB.34.000238
Annual Report 2016-17

9. Laha, S. S., Abdelhamid, E., Arachchige, M. P., Kumar, A., & Dixit, A. (2017). Ferroic ordering and charge-spin-
lattice order coupling in Gd-doped Fe3O4 nanoparticles relaxor multiferroic system. Journal of the American
Ceramic Society, n/a-n/a. ISSN: 1551-2916.
https://doi.org/10.1111/jace.14739
10. Omkar, S., Srikanth, R., Banerjee, S., & Shaji, A. (2016). The two-qubit amplitude damping channel:
Characterization using quantum stabilizer codes. Annals of Physics, 373, 145–162. ISSN: 0003-4916.
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.aop.2016.06.024
11. Saini, L., Janu, Y., Patra, M. K., Jani, R. K., Gupta, G. K., Dixit, A., & Vadera, S. R. (2016). Dual Band Resonance in
Tetragonal BaTiO3/NBR Composites for Microwave Absorption Applications. Journal of the American Ceramic
Society, n/a-n/a. ISSN: 1551-2916.
http://doi.org/10.1111/jace.14284
12. Saini, L., Patra, M. K., Jani, R. K., Gupta, G. K., Dixit, A., & Vadera, S. R. (2017). Tunable Twin Matching
Frequency (fm1/fm2) Behavior of Ni1−xZnxFe2O4/NBR Composites over 2–12.4 GHz: A Strategic Material System
for Stealth Applications. Scientific Reports, 7, 44457. ISSN: 2045-2322.
https://doi.org/10.1038/srep44457
13. Sharma, V., Thapliyal, K., Pathak, A., & Banerjee, S. (2016). A comparative study of protocols for secure
quantum communication under noisy environment: single-qubit-based protocols versus entangled-state-based
protocols. Quantum Information Processing, 1–30.
http://doi.org/10.1007/s11128-016-1396-7
14. Tripathi, B., Tripathi, G., Dixit, A., Saxena, N., Sharma, K. B., & Katiyar, R. S. (2016). Study of Hydrogen
Adsorption on GO/PS Based Flexible Nanocomposites at Room Temperature. Advanced Science Letters, 22(11),
3768–3772. ISSN: 1936-6612.
https://doi.org/10.1166/asl.2016.8056
15. Usmani, B., & Dixit, A. (2016). Impact of corrosion on microstructure and mechanical properties of ZrOx/
ZrC-ZrN/Zr absorber–refel ctor tandem solar selective structures. Solar Energy Materials and Solar Cells, 157,
733–741. ISSN: 0927-0248.
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.solmat.2016.07.019
16. Usmani, B., & Dixit, A. (2016). Spectrally selective response of ZrOx/ZrC–ZrN/Zr absorber–refel ctor tandem
structures on stainless steel and copper substrates for high temperature solar thermal applications. Solar
Energy, 134, 353–365. ISSN: 0038-092X.
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.solener.2016.05.014
17. Usmani, B., Vijay, V., Chhibber, R., & Dixit, A. (2016). Investigation of ZrOx/ZrC–ZrN/Zr thin-flim structural
evolution and their degradation using X-ray diffraction and Raman spectrometry. Applied Physics A, 122(11),
992. ISSN: 1432-0630.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s00339-016-0523-8
18. Vyas, G., Dagar, P., & Sahu, S. (2016). A complementary switching mechanism for organic memory devices to
regulate the conductance of binary states. Applied Physics Letters, 108(23), 233301. ISSN: 1077-3118.
http://doi.org/10.1063/1.4953197
1. Gupta, G. K., & Dixit, A. (2016). Room temperature electrical properties of solution derived p-type Cu2ZnSnS4
thin flims. In AIP Conference Proceedings (Vol. 1728, p. 20678). AIP Publishing. ISBN: 978-0-7354-1375-7.
http://doi.org/10.1063/1.4946729
2. Kumar, R., Kumar, R., & Dixit, A. (2016). Thermal phase diagram of acetamide-benzoic acid and benzoic acid-
phthalimide binary systems for solar thermal applications. In AIP Conference Proceedings (Vol. 1728, p. 20687).
AIP Publishing. ISSN: 978-0-7354-1375-7.
http://doi.org/10.1063/1.4946738
3. Kumar, R., Vyas, S., Kumar, R., & Dixit, A. (2016). Charging studies of heat packs using parabolic dish solar
energy concentrator for extreme conditions. In V. Rajpaul & C. Richter (ed.), 21st SolarPACES International
Conference (SolarPACES 2015) (Vol. 1734, p. 50027). American Institute of Physics, Cape Town, South Africa.
ISBN: 978-0-7354-1386-3.
http://doi.org/10.1063/1.4949125
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

1. Alok, A. K., Bhattacharya, B., Kumar, D., Kumar, J., London, D., & Sankar, S. U. (2017). New Physics in bsμ+μ−:
Distinguishing Models through CP-Violating Efef cts. arXiv:1703.09247 [Hep-Ph].
http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.09247
2. Alok, A. K., Kumar, D., Kumbhakar, S., & Sankar, S. U. (2016). D* polarization as a probe to discriminate new
physics in B --> D* tau nubar. arXiv:1606.03164 [Hep-Ex, Physics:hep-Ph].
http://arxiv.org/abs/1606.03164
3. Banerjee, S., Kumar, N. P., Srikanth, R., Jagadish, V., & Petruccione, F. (2017). Non-Markovian Dynamics of
Discrete-Time Quantum Walks. arXiv:1703.08004 [Quant-Ph].
http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.08004
4. Dixit, K., Alok, A. K., Banerjee, S., & Kumar, D. (2017). Geometric phase and neutrino mass hierarchy problem.
arXiv:1703.09894 [Hep-Ph, Physics:quant-Ph].
http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.09894
5. Dutta, S., Adhikari, B., & Banerjee, S. (2016). Seidel switching for weighted multi-digraphs and its quantum
perspective. arXiv:1608.07830 [Math-Ph, Physics:quant-Ph].
http://arxiv.org/abs/1608.07830
6. Goyal, R., Jha, R., Tiwari, B., Dixit, A., & Awana, V. P. S. (2016). Inful ence of Ni doping on critical parameters of
PdTe superconductor. arXiv:1605.04647 [Cond-Mat].
http://arxiv.org/abs/1605.04647
7. Sedrakian, A., Huang, X.-G., Sinha, M., & Clark, J. W. (2017). From microphysics to dynamics of magnetars.
arXiv:1701.00895 [Astro-Ph, Physics:nucl-Th].
http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00895
8. Thapliyal, K., Pathak, A., & Banerjee, S. (2016). Quantum cryptography over non-Markovian channels.
arXiv:1608.06071 [Quant-Ph].
http://arxiv.org/abs/1608.06071
Annual Report 2016-17

1. Amit Kumar Mishra, Assistant Professor, has won the CSIR-CDRI Medicinal and Process Chemistry Division based
Indian Society of Chemists and Biologists “ISCB Young Scientist Award for the year 2017” in the area of Biological
Sciences. The award comprises of a cash award of Rs. 5000/- and a citation, which is being conferred in a ceremony
at SRM University, Tamil Nadu during 8-10 February 2017.
2. Sushmita Jha’s research placed on cover of Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences, May 2016
From the research paper “NLR-regulated pathways in cancer: opportunities and obstacles for therapeutic
interventions” authored by Sushmita Jha, Assistant Professor, Department of Biology and Nidhi Sharma, Ph.D.
Student, Department of Biology, which was published in the May 2016 issue of Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences,
published by Springer Verlag, the figure depicting the “Summary of NLR infal mmasome complex formation
(Fig. 2)” has been placed as the cover art on the journal issue. NLRs (nucleotide-binding domain, leucine-rich
repeat containing receptors) are pattern recognition receptors associated with immunity and infal mmation in
response to endogenous and exogenous pathogen and damage associated molecular patterns (PAMPs and
DAMPs respectively). Dysregulated NLR function is associated with several diseases including cancers, metabolic
diseases, autoimmune disorders and autoinfal mmatory syndromes. In the last decade, distinct cell and organ
specific roles for NLRs have been identified however; their roles in cancer initiation, development and progression
remain controversial. This review summarizes the emerging role of NLRs in cancer and their possible future as
targets for cancer therapeutics. Full article can be read at doi:10.1007/s00018-015-2123-8.
Awards & Recognitions
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

1. Rakesh K. Sharma’s research placed on cover of ChemCatChem, May 2016
The cover shows the interface between the traditional and scientific applications of clay. In their
communication, V. K. Soni and R. K. Sharma show the smart utilization of clay as a heterogeneous catalyst by
nanometal intercalation for the selective hydrogenation of squalene into squalane under solvent free conditions.
Squalane is an important ingredient in the cosmetic, nutraceutical, and pharmaceutical industries. Also, it has been
used as a model compound for the hydrocracking of crude and microalgae oil. Thus, a series of green catalysts
were prepared. The Pd-nanoparticles-intercalated clay with a dominating Pd(111) facet shows highest reactivity
and selectivity. The catalyst is stable with very low Pd leaching, and is recyclable without losing any significant
catalytic activity. More information can be found in the communication by V. K. Soni and R. K. Sharma on page
1763 in Volume 8, Issue 10, 2016 (DOI:10.1002/cctc.201600210).
Annual Report 2016-17

2. Natural Rajasthani Clay (Jodhpur) for Production of Fuel & Value-added Products from Biomass Feedstocks
In a quest of developing cost effective and green catalytic systems for biomass upgradation, recently, Rakesh
K. Sharma, Assistant Professor and Head, Department of Chemistry, and Vineet Kumar Soni, Post-Doctoral
Fellow, utilized natural clay as a heterogeneous catalyst by nanometal intercalation for converting squalene
into squalane under solvent free conditions. Squalane is an important ingredient in the cosmetic, nutraceutical,
and pharmaceutical industries. Also, it has been used as a model compound for the hydrocracking of crude and
microalgae oil. The presence of Pd-nanoparticles with dominating Pd(111) plane showed highest reactivity and
selectivity. The catalysts are stable and reusable under the proposed reaction conditions. The group is now
focusing on exploring new clay-based catalysts for the production of fuel grade hydrocarbons from vegetable oil,
algae oil and related compounds.
1. Shree Prakash Tiwari, Assistant Professor, has been elevated as Senior Member of the Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers (SMIEEE) as an honour to his contribution to the profession.
2. Mahesh Kumar, Assistant Professor, has been elevated as Senior Member of the Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers (SMIEEE) as an honour to his contribution to the profession.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

3. Mahesh Kumar, Assistant Professor, has been decorated with the Young Achiever Award by the Board of
Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Government of India, for his
meritorious contribution in the field of Science, during the 61st Solid State Physics Symposium at KIIT University,
Bhubaneshwar on 30 December 2016.
4. The Indian National Young Academy of Science (INYAS), has elected Mahesh Kumar, Assistant Professor, as
a Core Committee Member of the Academy. INYAS was founded by the Indian National Science Academy in
December 2014 and came into existence with the selection of its 20 founding members by the INSA Council in
May 2015. Aspiring to be the voice of young scientists across the country, INYAS has 52 members and 7 elected
core committee members on board, presently.
1. Vidya Sarveswaran, Assistant Professor, was awarded the 2016 Rachel Carson Fellowship, by Rachel Carson Center
for Environment and Society at the Ludwig Maxmillian University, Munich. The Research Fellowship is supported
by the Deutches Museum and the Government of Germany.
1. Presentation made by Rahul Chhibber, Assistant Professor, was chosen as one of the best oral presentations
and was presented with an Excellent Oral Presentation Certificate at 2016 4th Asia Conference on Mechanical and
Materials Engineering (ACMME 2016) held at Kuala Lumpur during 14-18 July 2016.
Annual Report 2016-17

Outreach
The following Outreach activities have been undertaken by the Faculty Members at IIT Jodhpur during the 
 
FY 2016-17.
Undergraduate Research Initiative
IIT Jodhpur started the Undergraduate Research Initiative (UGRI) Program in 2011 with the objective of promoting 
research and innovation among undergraduate students. This program is organised every summer; it helps participating 
students improve their professional knowledge and skills. Students from across the country were encouraged to 
participate in the UGRI Program. 23 students participated in the UGRI 2016. Students were selected on the basis of 
their academic achievements and the merit of the research proposal submitted by them, be it an analytical one or an 
experimental one. It began on 16 May 2016 and ended on 15 July 2016. Selected students were provided accommodation 
in Students’ Hostel at IIT Jodhpur. During this period, the participating students were offered a token financial assistance 
to meet their basic expenses. During this 10 week program, the students worked on their projects under the mentorship 
of Faculty Members at IIT Jodhpur.
Participants of UGRI 2016 with Barun Pratiher, Faculty Member Incharge, UGRI 2016
Ishaan Vikaas Program
A special program in the name of Ishaan Vikaas, an initiative of the Ministry of Human Resource Development, has 
been launched as a comprehensive plan to bring selected school girls and boys, from the North-Eastern states into close 
contact with the IITs and IISERs during their vacation periods with the objective of opening up the young minds and 
giving them a broad overview of the future paths which they would like to traverse. They should get a wider perspective 
on how they can take a much more proactive role in shaping their own future. At the same time, as a part of Ishaan 
Vikaas, an academic activity will take place to encourage internship for the engineering college students of North-
Eastern states in various institutes of national importance.
From this year onwards, IIT Jodhpur has taken part in this Government’s mission to give whole-hearted support for 
the success of this Program. The Institute has organized the Program twice this year, during summer and winter.
During 4-16 July 2016, 40 school children, accompanied by 7 teachers visited IIT Jodhpur. In this context, a schedule 
has been prepared for the school children under the mentorship, guidance and supervision of the Faculty Members of 
respective department.
Participants of Ishaan Vikas Program
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Events
Celebration of National Festivals & Observance of 
Days of National Importance
Second International Yoga Day
First International Day of Yoga was celebrated on 21 June 2016 at the GPRA Residential Campus of IIT Jodhpur. 
Faculty Members, Staff Members and Students took an active part in the event.
Chairman, Health Services, IIT Jodhpur 
introducing the program
Faculty and Staff Members of IIT Jodhpur doing Yoga
Yoga Instructors demonstrating to the participants
The participants and instructors at Porta Cabin, GPRA 
Residential Campus, IIT Jodhpur
Annual Report 2016-17

70th Independence Day Celebration
The 70th Independence Day of the nation was celebrated by the members of IIT Jodhpur Community, on 15 August 
2016 in the Temporary Academic Campus. Subsequent upon the flag hoisting and rendering of the National Anthem by 
the members present, students presented a cultural show with a musical performance by Sangam (the music band of 
students) and a street play by Nukkad (the drama group of students).
Musical performance by “Sangam” the music band of IIT 
Jodhpur Students Gymkhana on 15 August 2016
Cultural Program by IIT Jodhpur Students on 15 
August 2016
Cultural Program by IIT Jodhpur Students 
on 15 August 2016
Audience enjoying the cultural programs on 15 
August 2016
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Tree Plantation in Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur
Tree plantation activity was undertaken at the Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur in Karwad on the occasion of 69th 
Independence Day on 15 August 2016. Several neem saplings were planted jointly by the members of the IIT Jodhpur 
community and the Jodhpur Tree Plantation and Environment Protection Committee (JTPEPC), led by Sri M. S. Singhvi, 
Senior Advocate, (High Court of Rajasthan, Jodhpur) in the presence of Honourable Justice Sandeep Mehta, (Sitting 
Judge, High Court of Rajasthan, Jodhpur) and distinguished members of JTPEPC.
Tree plantation at the Permanent Campus of IIT 
Jodhpur on 15 August 2016
Ek# /kjk esa gfj;kyh ykus dh vksj vkbZ-vkbZ-Vh- tks/kiqj ds f”k”kq dne] 
vkt+knh ds ‰Œos “kqHk ioZ ij vkbZ-vkbZ-Vh- tks/kiqj ds LFkkbZ ifjlj esa 
l?ku o`{kkjksi.k] ƒ‡ vxLr „Œƒˆ
Freedom Fortnight Celebrations @ IIT Jodhpur
On the occasion of Independence Day, the Government of India declared a 14 day celebration. IIT Jodhpur has taken 
this initiative positively and organised various events on this occasion. One of the activities organised by the Students 
Gymkhana during this celebration was “Sketching Competition”. The Institute showed great interest in the competition 
and actively participated in it. To encourage students think about the positive aspects and the great achievements of the 
country, “The Incredible India” theme was chosen for the competition. This inculcates feeling of patriotism and proud 
among the “Future of India”. Some of the sketches contributed by the Students are illustrated as under.
Another event that was organised by the Technical Society of the Students Gymkhana during 14-18 August 2016 was 
a task to use the Rube Goldberg machine to commemorate the 70th Independence Day. The projects were evaluated 
by Rajlaxmi Chouhan and Mahima Arrawatia, Assistant Professors, Department of Electrical Engineering. The following 
pictures depict application of Rube Goldberg machine:
Annual Report 2016-17

National Sports Day
National Sports Day was celebrated at IIT Jodhpur on 29 August 2016 at the GPRA Residential Campus. Following are 
some pictures of the celebration.
Students enjoying a game of Kho Kho
Happy National Sports Day!!
Teacher’s Day Celebrations @ IIT Jodhpur
IIT Jodhpur organized a program on Teacher’s Day to pay tribute to the contribution of Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan 
and to acknowledge the importance of Teachers towards nation building.
Coordinator (Academics) welcomed the Director, Faculty Members, Staff Members, and Students. Professor Prawal 
Sinha, Professor In-charge (Faculty) introduced the guest speaker Professor Amit Ray, who served as a Professor at the 
Department of Humanities & Social Sciences at IIT Kanpur from 1978-2008 and presently associated with the School 
of Humanities and Social Sciences, Shiv Nadar University. Professor Ray addressed the gathering on “Milestones and 
Signposts in the Journey of an Academic” and shared some valuable experiences from his illustrious career. Thereafter, 
Certificates of Academic Distinction were presented by the Heads of Departments to the meritorious students. As a 
mark of respect to a great teacher, Professor Ray was felicitated on this occasion. The program ended with a Vote of 
Thanks by Coordinator (Students).
Professor Amit Ray addressing the IIT Jodhpur Community
Presenting Certificate of Academic Distinction
Presenting Certificate of Academic Distinction
Felicitating Professor Amit Ray
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Hindi Pakhwada
With an objective of spreading awareness and to expedite official communication process in Hindi language, a 
fortnight during Spetember of every year is dedicated as Hindi Pakhwada. Hindi Diwas observed on 14 September marks 
the beginning of this fortnight. The Hindi Diwas and Hindi Pakhwada are organized in all Central Government Offices.
In FY 2016-17 Hindi Pakhwada was organized in IIT Jodhpur from 14-28 September 2016, wherein various competitions 
like debate, poem recitation, quiz and letter writing were conducted. Staff Members of IIT Jodhpur participated in these 
competitions enthusiastically. The winners were awarded prizes and certificates of appreciation during the closing 
ceremony on 28 September 2016.
Debate competition during Hindi Pakhwada
Winner receiving Certificate of Appreciation from
68th Republic Day Celebration
The 68th Republic Day of the nation was celebrated by 
Members of IIT Jodhpur community, on 26 January 2017, at the 
First Building on the Permanent Campus in Karwad Village. The 
Director hoisted the National Flag, and the National Anthem 
was patriotically rendered by all present.
Students presented a cultural show with a musical 
performance by Sangam, the music band of students, and 
a street play by Nukkad, the drama group of students. The 
General Secretary of Student Gymkhana, IIT Jodhpur, proposed 
a Vote of Thanks. A visit was arranged to nearing completion 
buildings of the Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur for the 
Students, Faculty Members and Staff Members present. The 
program was followed by lunch.
Earlier in the morning, the National Flag was hoisted at the 
Academic Campus and the GPRA & BSNL Residential Campuses 
also.
Students presenting cultural programs on the occasion of 68th Republic Day
Annual Report 2016-17

Institute Events
Institute Day
The Institute organizes Institute Day, every year, as a benign gesture to mark our association so far with the outgoing 
students of B.Tech. and M.Tech. This year it was organized on 16 April 2016, as a small function followed by dinner. It was 
a moment of melancholy of feelings for the, as well as for the Faculty and Staff members for the Institute.
Outgoing batch of B.Tech. Students
Outgoing Students sharing their experiences
Outgoing Students with Director, Faculty Members and Staff Members of IIT Jodhpur
Outgoing batch of M.Tech. Students
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

3rd Convocation of IIT Jodhpur
The 3rd Convocation of IIT Jodhpur was held on 08 December 2016. The Chief Guest for the momentous occasion was 
Dr. Arvind Panagariya, Vice Chairman, NITI Aayog, Government of India. Though Dr. Panagariya could not be present 
in person for the occasion due to an important and urgent assignment at the last moment, he sent his video recorded 
speech, which was played during the event. Total 157 students received their degrees, out of which 136 were B.Tech. 
students, 15 were M.Tech. students, and 6 were Ph.D. students. With this the total number of students graduating 
from this young Institute stands at 720. The Convocation ceremony was held at the Auditorium of All India Institute of 
Medical Sciences, Jodhpur.
Director, IIT Jodhpur, reading the Institute Report
Parents of Sachin Grover receiving President’s Gold Medal 
on his behalf
Visitors to the Institute
Indo-US Relations
Mark Azua, Director, Programs, North India Office, Embassy of the United States of America, gave a talk on “India-
U.S. Relations: The Way Forward” on Wednesday, 16 November 2016. Mr. Azua talked about the relationship between 
the countries and its progress after the recent Presidential Elections. Faculty Members, Staff Members, and Students 
attended the talk.
Mark Azua addressing the audience
Visit of Union Minister for State for Electronics & IT and Law & Justice
Sh. P. P. Chaudhary, Union Minister for State for Electronics & IT and Law & Justice, visited IIT Jodhpur on 10 December 
2016. A meeting was held at IIT Jodhpur on 10 December 2016 from 4:30 pm to discuss the possibility of establishing an 
Information Technology Investment Region (ITIR) in the greater Jodhpur-Pali region. The meeting was chaired by the 
Hon’ble Union Minister of State for Electronics & IT and Law & Justice, Sh. P. P. Chaudhary. The meeting was attended
Annual Report 2016-17

by C. V. R. Murty (Director, IIT Jodhpur), Dr. S. R. Vadera (Director, DRDO Defence Laboratory Jodhpur), Sh. M. L. Bapna 
(Advisor – Industry-Academia Interface, IIT Jodhpur), three Faculty Members of IIT Jodhpur (Arun K. Singh (EE), S. P. 
Tiwari (EE), and B. V. Ramana (CSE)), Sh. Dipak Singh (Scientist F, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, 
Government of India), Sh. N. K. Gupta (Scientist B, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of 
India) and Sh. Mukesh Chaudhary (Additional Private Secretary to Minister of State, Government of India).
Professor C. V. R. Murty presenting a memento to Sh. P. P. Chaudhary
Inter-IIT Sports Meet
IIT Jodhpur’s Participation
Faculty Members and Staff Members of IIT Jodhpur activelty participated in the 23rd Inter-IIT Staff Sports Meet. 
The meet was organized during 21-25 December 2016 by IIT Kanpur. The Faculty and Staff Members participated in 
Cricket, Badminton, Table Tennis, and Athletics. Alongside, Students also participated in the 45th Inter-IIT Sports Meet 
held during 11-18 December 2016 at IIT Kanpur.
IIT Jodhpur Contingent
Women’s Table Tennis – IIT Jodhpur vs. IIT Delhi
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Facilities
Our Campus
Present Campuses
At present, IIT Jodhpur operates from two sets of temporary campuses, namely:
Temporary Academic Campus: It operates independently from the premises of MBM Engineering College in Jodhpur, 
situated on the Old Residency Road, Ratanada, at a distance of about 4 km from the Jodhpur Railway Station and 3 kms 
from the Jodhpur Airport.
Temporary Residential Campuses: IIT Jodhpur has two residential campuses located at (1) GPRA Residential Campus, 
New Pali Road Jodhpur, and (2) BSNL Residential Campus, Subhash Nagar, Jodhpur. GPRA Campus is located at New 
Pali Road, about 17 kms from the academic campus and provides accommodation to nearly 600 B.Tech. boy and all girl 
students. Also, it provides accommodation to nearly 150 other members of IIT community, including Faculty Members, 
Staff Members, and their family members. On the other hand, BSNL Campus is located in the heart of the city and 
provides accommodation to nearly 150 male M.Tech. and Ph.D. students. Limited housing is available on this campus for 
married students.
Temporary Academic Campus
Currently, the academic campus of IIT Jodhpur comprises of three blocks, namely:
(i) 
Academic Block 1: It houses several laboratories, the library, a computer center and offices of some Faculty 
Members.
(ii) Academic Block 2: It has lecture halls, classrooms, language lab and multimedia lab.
(iii) 
Administrative Block: It houses the Office of Director, administrative offices, technical laboratories and offices of 
some Faculty Members.
In addition, the academic campus consists of some temporary structures used for different purposes such as 
laboratories and office spaces. IIT Jodhpur has established good academic facilities for teaching and research. The 
Institute has well equipped Laboratories and a Library.
Laboratories and Research Facilities
IIT Jodhpur has established state-of-the-art teaching and research laboratories. These advanced laboratories have 
machinery and devices of international standard, which are actively used in research. The major laboratories include Heat 
Transfer, Fluid Mechanics, Electronic Circuit Laboratory, Robotics, Electro Mechanical Energy Conversion Laboratory 
and Solar Radiation.
Annual Report 2016-17

Library
The Library has a collection of about 12,000 volumes of books comprising of textbooks, research and reference 
books, monographs etc. In addition, the Library provides access to a range of electronic resources from professional 
and scholarly societies and publishers, such as American Society for Mechanical Engineers, Institute for Electrical & 
Electronics Engineers, and Association for Computing Machinery, to name a few. Also, it subscribes to popular scientific, 
research and archival databases, like SciFinder, MathSciNet, JStor, Prowess, and EBSCO Academic Search.
The Library operates in a computerized environment with automated member & circulation services, and digital 
library services. Memberships, circulation, reference & information service, inter library loans & document lending 
services, current awareness service, digital library service are some of the important services that are presently offered.
Temporary Residential Campuses
GPRA Residential Campus
The major residential area is in a scenic campus located on New Pali Road, Vivek Vihar, Jodhpur, about 20 kms from 
the railway station. The campus is well guarded and equipped with basic amenities including Wi-Fi, recreational rooms 
and a computer center. Also, the residential campus provides accommodation for Faculty Members and Staff Members 
of the Institute. Transport facility is available between the Institute and Residential campus.
BSNL Residential Campus
The second residential campus is located in BSNL Colony on Pal Link Road in Subhash Nagar. Basic common facilities 
are available at BSNL colony. Transport facility is available between the Institute and BSNL Campus. All male M.Tech. and 
Ph.D. and some married students are given accommodation in this residential campus.
Facilities
Following are some basic facilities made available in the residential areas:
(a) 
ATM & Bank: The residential area has a branch of SBI (State Bank of India) as well as an ATM of SBI, enabling 
students to make transactions with ease. There are several other banks namely UCO, HDFC and SBBJ close to 
the academic area.
(b) 
Canteen: There are two sets of canteens, one at Residential Campus and the other one in Academic Campus. 
They provide hygienic food, fresh juices and various other snacks for the students.
(c)	

 
Gymnasium: A well-equipped gymnasium is present in the Residential Campuses, and is operational during 5 
am to 10 pm. Students can avail these facilities to stay healthy and to maintain their physique.
(d) 
Dining Facility: There are two sets of Dining Facilities, one in the Residential Campuses and the other one in 
the Academic Campus. The mess offers good quality food, regularly monitored by the Wardens for hygiene 
and nutritional values, and provided at affordable cost.
(e) 
Shops: Shops catering to the various primary needs of students are present near the Academic Campus. A 
small outlet is functional inside GPRA campus for urgent petty purchases.
(f) 
Transport Services: The Institute has a bus service running between the Residential and Academic Campuses 
at regular intervals, exclusively for the Students of the Institute.
(g) 
Entertainment Room: Every hostel consists of recreation facilities (like TV Rooms, where students can enjoy 
matches and watch movies) along with indoor games (like table tennis and carroms).
Medical Services
Both the Residential Campuses have Health Centers for providing routine health services. Due to geographical 
locations of the two Campuses and the type of the residents, Health Center at GPRA Campus provides services to the 
patients round the clock, while medical services are available at BSNL Campus for limited hours in the evening, typically 
from 5 pm to 10 pm. In addition to the availability of medical services at Residential Campuses, medical assistance is 
available at Academic Campus. This assistance is normally provided from 3 pm to 4.30 pm, when laboratory sessions are 
in full swing and medical assistance may be required. The Institute has its ambulance services available round-the-clock.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Besides the Health Centers, the Institute has empanelled five hospitals in the city of Jodhpur. Two of these hospitals 
have specializations in ophthalmology and one in orthopedic, and the remaining two hospitals are the best known 
general purpose hospitals in the city. For specialized medical attention doctors at our Health Centers refer patients 
to one of these hospitals. In addition to these five hospitals, the city has a Medical College and three hospitals run by 
Government of Rajasthan. Also, the city All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), which is nearly 12 km GPRA 
Campus and nearly 5 km from BSNL Campus. Also, the Institute has constituted a Medical Board consisting of Senior 
Doctors from the Medical College and the AIIMS; advice is taken for enhancement of medical services of the Health 
Centers and in critical medical cases. IIT Jodhpur has empanelled two hospitals in Jaipur. These two hospitals are 
accredited by National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare, and patients can be referred to these hospitals 
as per the need of the treatment.
Permanent Campus
In the forthcoming years, IIT Jodhpur will shift to its sprawling state-of-the-art residential permanent campus on 
852 acres of land located ~24 km away from the center of the city of Jodhpur on National Highway 65 towards Nagaur, 
N-NE from the center of Jodhpur. The permanent campus has 3 parcels of land. The Institute is finalizing plans for 
adopting one of for harvesting technologies. This new campus has been planned meticulously and envisioned to stand 
as a symbol of academics – simple, but deep.
Master Plan of IIT Jodhpur’s Permanent Campus at Karwar Village on NH 65
The foundation stone for the permanent campus was laid on 16 April 2013 by the Hon. Union Minister for Human 
Resources Development (Government of India), Dr. M. M. Pallam Raju. The Permanent Campus of the Institute is being 
constructed. Work to build Phase 1 of the campus began in March 2015. When complete, it will be the first fully-planned 
technical institute campus in India. More importantly, it will be an international exemplar of sustainability with strategies 
for ensuring NET ZERO ENERGY, WATER and WASTE. The other salient features of the Permanent Campus are:
Annual Report 2016-17

(1) Walking campus, which is pedestrian oriented and bicycle dominant;
(2) 
Learning facilitated anywhere, anytime with wireless ICT backbone (including Multi-media enabled learning spaces 
with flexible, shared public spaces);
(3) 
Thermally comfortable smart buildings with GRIHA 4/5 star compliant buildings and GRIHA LD benchmark campus 
(including dense desert settlement morphology, low height buildings (up to a maximum of 3 storeys) built with low 
embodied energy materials, and improved local and traditional methods);
(4) 
Plantation with native species, soil stabilization, protection from dusty wind to arrest erosion, desertification, and 
building-up soil moisture over time;
(5) Rain water harvesting, and water reduction and sewage recycling, together greening the site over time; and
(6) Segregated wastes and customized recycling
Entrance structure of IIT Jodhpur permanent campus
The campus will have housing for Faculty Members and Staff Members, along with a school (up to Class XII), bank, 
post office and market. Also, it will have a Primary Health Center with hotline connections to reach the top hospitals of 
the city, like the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur, and a fully equipped ambulance service. A large parcel 
of the Permanent Campus (of about 182 acres) is set aside for the development a TECHNOLOGY PARK to strengthen 
institute-industry interactions.
Faculty Members & Officers housing
The first migrations into the campus are likely to take place during July 2017.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Computer Center
The Institute has a modern Computer Center, presently running on a gigabit LAN with 1Gbps internet bandwidth. It 
is the nucleus of all computing activities for Students, Staff Members and Faculty Members. Several terminals running 
on Windows and GNU/Linux operating systems across the campus provide access to several licensed software, like 
MatLab, Mathematica, Cadence, Mentor Graphic, Ansys, PSCAD and Solidworks. A 802.11/b/g/n Wi-Fi service is enabled 
in the academic and residential areas. Also, the Computer Centre hosts a High Performance Computing cluster for 
scientific research.
Resources
The Institute has five key resources at the Computer Center, namely, the Linux Operating System, SVN Server, GIT 
Server, OwnCloud and various licensed application software that are used for academic and research purpose, have 
made it possible to offer the various resources and facilities.
Facilities
The Institute extends three facilities, namely, networking, computing, Internet access, and LDAP and Active Directory 
ID facilities through its Computer Center.
Services
The Institute offers services like FTP, LDAP, HPC, Web Hosting, Network Connectivity, VPN, EduRoam, and News 
Group, through its Computer Center.
Annual Report 2016-17

Library
Library supports the teaching and research activities of the Institute by facilitating acquisition, organization and 
dissemination of knowledge resources, and also by providing library & information services to IIT Jodhpur community. 
Library is located on the ground floor of Academic Block I in the Academic Campus of IIT Jodhpur, in room nos. 1001, 
1001 Extension, and 1011. Library functions with the guidance of Library Committee, which has representatives from all 
Departments, and Student Representatives.
Room No. 1001, AB1 – Stacks
Circulation Section
Library Collection
The Library has a rich and growing collection of 12,000 volumes of books (approx.), which include textbooks, and 
books of general and reference nature. A wide range of scholarly journals and databases are also subscribed from 
various sources for the academic and research purposes of the Institute.
Services & Facilities
The following services and facilities are being provided by the Library to its registered users.
1. Member & Circulation Services
2. Orientation & User Education
3. Borrowing Facility
4. Reference & Information Service
5. Course Reserves
6. Current Awareness Service
7. Inter Library Loan & Document Supply
8. Digital Library Facility & Services 
Digital resources are accessible through the Library website, which is a comprehensive site maintained by Library. 
They include the Library subscribed resources, online catalogue, lists of useful resources accessible in the open domain 
like the open access journals, books, repositories, video lectures, open courseware. These resources are continuously 
updated.
Library also maintains a portal for hosting bibliographic listing of the Faculty Publications. Additionally, a course 
guide portal has also been developed and maintained by Library, wherein, resources i.e., books available in Library, 
subscribed journals, resources accessible in open domain are listed and linked, course-wise. This platform is very useful 
for the students in finding topical and course-wise resources. Library also provides remote access to the subscribed 
scholarly resources and anti-plagiarism checking.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S. No. Description Statistics
1. Books added Total 276
a. Number of titles added 106
b. Number of volumes added 276
2. Number of Scholarly Resources subscribed Total 32
a. Fulltext resources 25
b. Research databases 7
3. Document Supply & Inter Library Loan service requested fulfilled Total 399
a. Document supply of articles & research papers 390
b. Books arranged on Inter Library Loans 9
4. Circulation Transactions Total 25,267
a. Number of book check-outs 12328
b. Number of book check-ins 12289
c. Number of book renewals 574
d. Number of book recalls 76
Room No. 1011, AB1 – Course Reserves & Digital Library 
Section
Room No. 1001 Extension, AB1 – Reading Room
Appearing below are some vital statistics of Library for FY 2016-17:
Details of E-Resources
Library has licensed the following electronic resources in this year, for teaching, research and private study of its 
academic community.
A. Fulltext Resources
1.	
Association of Computing Machinery Digital Library
2.	
American Chemical Society Journals
3.	
American Institute of Physics Journals
4.	
American Physical Society Journals
5.	
American Society for Civil Engineers
6.	
American Society for Mechanical Engineers Digital Library
7.	
ASTM Standards & Engineering Digital Library
8.	
Annual Reviews
9.	
EBSCO Academic Search Complete
10.	
Economic & Political Weekly
Annual Report 2016-17

11.	
Emerald Insight
12.	
Human Molecular Genetics Journal
13.	
IEL (IEEE) Online Digital Library
14.	
JStor Archives
15.	
Nature Journal
16.	
Oxford University Press Journals
17.	
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
18.	
Project MUSE Journals
19.	
Proquest ABI/INFORM Complete
20. Royal Society of Chemistry Journals
21.	
Science Online
22.	
Elsevier Science Journals
23. Society of Industrial & Applied Mathematics Journals
24. Springer Journals
25. World eBook Library South Asia Archives
B. Research Databases
1.	
CMIE Prowess IQ (Economics Database)
2.	
IndiaStat (Statistical Database)
3.	
Institute for Studies in Industrial Development (ISID) (Indexing Database)
4.	
MathSciNet (Abstracting & Indexing Database)
5.	
SciFinder (Research Database)
6.	
Scopus (Citation & Indexing Database)
7.	
Web of Science (Citation & Indeixng Database)
The Library is also a core member of the eShodhSindhu: Consortium for Higher Education Electronic Resources, 
operated by INFLIBNET Center, Gandhinagar, thorugh which subscriptions to major resources is fulfilled. Also, the 
Library is a member of DEveloping Libraries NETwork (DELNET), New Delhi through which the Library meets its Inter 
Library Loan requirements.
Library also subscribes to Antiplagiarism Tool and Remote Access Tool for its users. Orientation sessions and Library 
Instruction sessions for Students are conducted by the Library Staff from time to time.
Along with providing regular library facilities and services, the Library Staff Members are also engaged in rendering 
services in preparation of Institute’s publications like the Annual Report, Institute Newsletter; and also actively 
contribute in maintaining the Institute’s website and repositories.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl. No. Name of the Laboratory
1. Advanced Biosciences and Neuroscience laboratory
2. Chemical Biology laboratory
3. Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory
4. Protein Engineering Laboratory
1. Chemistry Laboratory
1. Multimedia Laboratory
2. Networking Technologies Laboratory
1. Control / DSP / Microprocessor Laboratory
2. Electronic Circuit Laboratory
3. Instrumentation & Communication Laboratory
4. Power Electronics Laboratory
5. Robotics Laboratory
1. Digital Language Laboratory
1. Advance Manufacturing Laboratory
2. Central Workshop
3. Dynamics & Vibration Laboratory
4. Electro Mechanical Energy Conversion Laboratory
5. Fluid Mechanics & Heat Transfer Laboratory
6. High Temperature Solar Thermal Laboratory
7. Materials Testing & Solid Mechanics Laboratory
8. Renewable Energy Laboratory
9. Solar Radiation Laboratory
1. Biomolecular Information Processing Laboratory
2. Magnetic Property Measurement System (MPMS / SQUID) Laboratory
3. Materials Analysis Laboratory
4. Physics Laboratory
Laboratories
IIT Jodhpur has established good number of teaching and research laboratories and facilities, which aid in elevating 
the students from minimalist academic concerns to inquisitive world of scientific arena. These teaching and research 
laboratories help Faculty Members and Students work for better future by supplementing and improving existing 
technologies and bodies of knowledge, using competence, creativity and imagination. Appearing below is a department-
wise list of laboratories established in IIT Jodhpur whose details are given in the following pages.
Annual Report 2016-17

Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
The Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering (formerly Department of Biology) has the following laboratories 
for teaching and research purposes.
1. Advanced Biosciences and Neuroscience laboratory
The Advanced Biosciences and Neuroscience laboratory is a part of the center of excellence in biologically inspired 
systems science (BISS). This laboratory provides cellular and molecular investigative tools for UG and PG teaching and 
research in neuroscience. Cell culture studies are utilised along with molecular biology, biochemistry and microscopy 
approaches to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying molecular and cellular interactions underlying 
inflammation and repair. Inflammation is a key component of many diseases including traumatic brain injury, cancer, 
multiple sclerosis, stroke, asthma, Parkinson’s disease and Alzheimer’s disease. Inflammation is characterized by 
accumulation and proliferation of innate immune cells. This is followed by clearance of dead cells and cellular debris 
along with enhanced expression of molecular mediators called cytokines and chemokines, which cause migration and 
proliferation of immune cells and may even lead to cell death. Understanding the mechanisms by which inflammation 
occurs, and the molecular mediators involved in this process, is necessary for identification of potential therapeutic 
targets.
2. Chemical Biology Laboratory
The Chemical Biology Laboratory deploys cellular and molecular biology approaches to explore the pathogenesis of 
cancer and other neurodegenerative diseases. Given the interest in neuronal death, it is no wonder that this lab team is 
interested in E3 ubiquitin ligases essential for quality control events in neuronal survival. Protein ubiquitylation is highly 
versatile, ordered, the multistep post translation modification enzymatic process that regulates numerous aspects of 
cell physiology. This lab team has been studying the role of such E3 ligases to find out the role of quality control E3 
ubiquitin ligases in maintenance of proteostasis and hence playing a role in cellular survival and death. Such important 
biochemical findings may contribute to innovative therapeutic approaches for the diseases associated with misfolded 
proteins.
Organisms at the cellular level possess a well-established protein quality control mechanism which the lab team is 
trying to understand at present. The role of E3 ubiquitin ligases was reported in such mechanisms so far. Our laboratory 
is dedicated to a qualitative research in the field of protein quality control mechanisms. We have recently found that a 
HECT domain containing E3 ubiquitin ligase E6-AP helps in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis diseases suppression through 
its association with the misfolded protein aggregates formed by SOD1 mutants. Such findings support that an E3 ligase 
can have a capability to clear the misfolded protein aggregation. However, while appreciating the incredible efficiency 
of cellular systems, we must recognize the crucial role of chaperones which are supposed to work preferentially 
compared to E3 ubiquitin ligases in order to refold the misfolded proteins, and hence conserving the energy utilized 
during the translation of those proteins. Various examples made us think that we could explore the role of both the 
chaperones and E3 ubiquitin ligases in the clearance of misfolded proteins. Therefore, now we are working not only with 
E3 ubiquitin ligases but also with the chaperones and even in their functional association to confer an efficient quality 
control mechanism to the cell.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

3. Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory
The Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory at IIT Jodhpur, in addition to serving various undergraduate and post-
graduate courses, undertakes research in the areas of bioenergy and bioremediation. Researchers in the lab investigate 
on waste to energy conversion processes with an aim to develop sustainable biotechnological solutions to water 
pollution and energy. At present, successful bioremediation processes for nitrate and chromium (VI) contaminated 
wastes have been developed. Also, research is underway for the development of low cost Microbial Carbon Capture 
cells for power generation and algae cultivation. In addition to this, researchers in the lab have been successful in 
isolating novel yeasts, the potential biodiesel producing candidates.
4. Protein Engineering Laboratory
The Protein Engineering Laboratory at IIT Jodhpur is undertaking cutting edge research in developing biomaterials 
based on the understanding of structural and functional properties of useful proteins such as collagen. The implications 
of the research could also extend towards development of effective biomedical devices and implants.
Annual Report 2016-17

Department of Chemistry
The Department of Chemistry has the following laboratories for teaching and research purposes.
1. Chemistry Laboratory
The core objective of the chemistry laboratory of IIT Jodhpur is to train students in scientific methods that would 
solve real problems at the frontier of our understanding of the matter. This is a multi-use laboratory and provides a 
number of resources to assist undergraduate, graduate and Ph.D. students in planning their professional careers after 
completing their academic program at IIT Jodhpur.
This laboratory maintains a broad spectrum of state-of-the-art instrumentation including basic laboratory set up (for 
organic, inorganic, organometallic and material synthesis), Nitrogen, Oxygen and LPG gas line, Inert atmosphere boxes, 
vacuum line work, fume hood pH, conductivity, BOD, COD, meters, Rotary evaporator, Vacuum pumps, centrifuges, High 
pressure reactor system, Chiller, microbalances, Orbital Shaker, GC, HPLC and Radleys ready reactor. In the academic 
year 2012-2013, the lab procured equipment such as Polarimeter, Melting point Instrument, Solar Simulator, Digital 
Titrator, Kugalrohr, Electrochemical work stations, and Battery analysers.
A 500 MHz NMR spectrometer with solid state probe is an essential resource, whose mission is to make a state-of-
the-art high field NMR and methods available to researchers, providing a place for them to pursue their projects and 
develop new methodologies in NMR methods.
The following are some pictures of Chemistry Laboratory.
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectrometer (500 MHz)
 Chemistry Laboratory
Powder X-ray Diffractometer
 Scanning Electron Microscope and Electron Dispersion 
Spectrometer
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Simulator
Surface Area Analyzer
Gas Chromatograph
Reactor Ready
Atomic Force Microscope
Fluorescence Spectrometer
Glow Box
High Pressure Reactor
Annual Report 2016-17

Department of Computer Science & Engineering
The Department of Computer Science & Engineering has the following laboratories for teaching and research 
purposes.
1. Multimedia Laboratory
The Media Laboratory provides facilities to carry out work related to E-learning, image processing, and computer 
vision. The thrust areas of research in this lab are: Semantic analysis of video/image content, video surveillance, human 
motion analysis, document image analysis, content based image retrieval etc. E-learning related activities include video 
recording, audio-video digitization, video editing, etc. In the academic year 2011-2012, a research on Indian sign language 
recognition using Kinect has been initiated.
1. Scanners: Book Drive Mini, UMAX Powerlook.
2. Cameras: Sony 177PD, Sony Camcorder, Cannon 500D VCR: Sony DSR 45AP
3. Tripods: Manfrotto, iMac.
2. Networking Technologies Laboratory
Networking Technologies Laboratory has been started functioning in the Academic Year 2011-2012. It aims at enabling 
undergraduate and graduate students, who pursue their interest in the area of computer networks, to understand the 
concepts of computer networks and work with contemporary networking equipment in a realistic setting. In addition, 
the lab aims at providing necessary infrastructure to carry out research activities on advanced topics, such as wireless 
mesh networks, sensor networks, communication on power lines, from computer networks. The activities that take 
place in this laboratory are:
1. Prototyping of networking hardware (Example, Ethernet switch, IPV4 router etc.) using NetFPGA.
2. Developing packet processors using “Click router” modular software framework.
3. 
Establishing infrastructure for the mini-Internet, single-hop wireless networks, multi-hop wireless mesh and 
sensor networks, power line communication networks, home phone line networks.
4. Studies related to the performance analysis of various protocols over on different network configurations.
5. 
Development of novel routing algorithms, transport layer mechanisms, and services for next generation 
networks.
6. 
Setting up planet-lab infrastructure (which will essentially become part of the global distributed computing 
platform created over the Internet by connecting over 500+ sites). This allows the students and researchers not 
only to understand the traffic patterns on the Internet but also to develop new technologies/applications on the 
Internet for distributed storage, networking mapping, peer-to-peer systems, content distribution service, and 
cloud computing.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Department of Electrical Engineering
The Department of Electrical Engineering has the following laboratories for teaching and research purposes.
1. Control / DSP / Microprocessor Laboratory
The lab provides software and hardware infrastructure for carrying out experiments in the field of Control Systems, 
Microprocessor and DSP. Broadly, the lab includes the following experimental setup:
1. Control Systems
a. Ball & Beam System from Quanser 
b. Magnetic Levitation System from Quanser 
c. Inverted Pendulum System from Quanser 
d. Software include Scilab / MatLab 
2. DSP Lab Equipment
3. Microprocessor Lab
3. Electronic Circuit Laboratory
In this laboratory the students make and test their analog and digital circuits by using all kinds of circuit components 
like diode, transistor, op-amps, and clocks. The lab has following equipment:
1. Arbitrary Function Generator from Agilent 
2. Digital Oscilloscope from Agilent 
3. Programmable Power Supply from Scientific 
4. 6 1/2 BIT DMM from Agilent
4. Instrumentation and Communication Laboratory
The mission of Instrumentation and Communication Laboratory is to provide platform for UG and PG students 
on research and hands-on learning in Measurement and Automation Technology. The state-of-the-art facilities at
Annual Report 2016-17

this laboratory offer innovative research opportunities in the astronomical space of communication and real time 
measurement technology. The experienced Lab team nurtures students’ talent in research and offers an opportunity for 
developing sophisticated measurement, test, control systems, data analysis system and next generation communication 
technologies.
Students also develop theoretical and practical competence in (i) building baseband communication circuits, (ii) 
the application of NI LabVIEW graphical programming software, (iii) the PXI based NI RF/Wireless measurement stand, 
(iv) evaluating NI WSNs and LabVIEW software, adjusting a software-defined radio system, measuring the parameters 
of studied antennas and (v) the operation of analog modulation schemes. NI-Lab contains software and hardware 
subsystems which enable rapid prototyping and development of embedded systems for various applications. Currently, 
this lab constitutes the following setups:
1. NI ELVIS based Communication Systems and Theory Teaching Stand
2. Large MIMO Stand for Spectral, Channel Efficiency Studies and New Standard Development
3. Protocols Stand for WLAN, WiMAX, GPS, RFID, Zigbee, GSM, CDMA, WCDMA, Bluetooth
4. FPGA-enabled Software Defined Radio Stand for Custom Communication Scheme Development and Research
5. Basic Analog and Digital Communication Techniques Teaching Stand
6. Wireless Sensor Networks Stand
7. Signal Intelligence and Wireless Spectral Monitoring Stand
8. Wireless Prototype Characterization and Testing Stand
9. FPGA based protocol development for base-band studies and signal processing
10.	
VNA based Antenna Characterization Stand
11.	Fiber Optic Communication Stands
12.	Network Based Manufacturing
13.	
USRP (Universal Software Radio Peripheral) based wireless communication system for physical layer design, 
record and playback, signal intelligence, algorithm validation and more.
14.	
Network Communication and Manufacturing Control Stand
After three years of its formation, this lab has contributed immensely to the learning and research activities at 
IIT Jodhpur. Communications and Networking Lab, Intelligent Instrumentation, System Analysis Techniques and Bio-
Sensors courses are being offered through this lab for both graduate and undergraduate students. The lab has provided 
the right hardware and software tools for many industrial consultancy projects, including the development of DRM/
DRM+ IP for digital radio standards, Link budget design for Marine environment, DRFM based Radar echo simulator 
and Blind Signal Demodulator. Other projects being done in the lab are development of affordable wireless video 
transmission systems, cognitive radio and Zigbee protocol development.
5. Power Electronics Laboratory
The power electronics laboratory is used for undergraduate studies and research in the area of power electronics 
based power conversion systems, control systems and drives. The laboratory facilitates for faculty and students to
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

conduct research in the areas power converters and AC/DC micro-grid. The laboratory is equipped with state-of-art test 
and measurement instruments, converters, power supplies and programming boards. Major equipment available in this 
lab are:
6. Robotics Laboratory
IIT Jodhpur has an advanced robotics laboratory for PG/UG education and research. The infrastructure includes the 
following:
1. Vicon Motion Tracking System
2. 
Mobile Manipulator comprising of Barret WAM ARM 
mounted on a PowerBot Mobile robot platform
3. Pioneer P3-DX mobile robots - 10 units
4. Turtlebot
5. Wheel Chair
6. Force Plate
7. 
Infrastructure for Mobile Robotics - Navigation, Path-
planning, SLAM
8. 
Dynamic and Kinematic Control problem, Redundancy 
Resolution, Inverse Kinematics of Manipulators and 
Mobile Manipulators, Visual Servoing, and
9. GAIT Analysis and Robot Assisted Rehabilitation
Annual Report 2016-17

Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
The Department of Humanities and Social Sciences uses the Language Lab teaching and practice of language.
1. Digital Language Laboratory
The Digital Language Laboratory provides resources, facility, and support for foreign language instruction and 
learning to the entire student community of IIT Jodhpur. The lab is the multilingual computing and assessment center 
of the Institute. The lab team explores and implements methods through which multimedia technology renders a more 
authentic experience to learning a foreign language. Here, for language learning purposes one could seek recourse to 
technologies like the Internet and interactive video, audiovisual techniques, multi-modal iconic approach, and speech 
recognition. The exercises include listening and comprehension, grammar-based exercises, placement solutions, and 
mastery tests. The main features of this facility include Smart Class Symposium LL from Robotel and New Dynamic 
English Learning Program from Dyned International. All the facilities at the Digital Language Laboratory are proficiency-
oriented, standard-based, and nurture the students’ enthusiasm for gaining global exposure and proficiency in a foreign 
language.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Department of Mechanical Engineering
The Department of Mechanical Engineering has the following laboratories for teaching and research purposes.
1. Advance Manufacturing Laboratory
In the Advance Manufacturing Laboratory, CAD model of object is prepared using 3D modelling software like 
ProE, SolidWorks, and Catia. FE analysis is carried out using Analysis software like Ansys, Nastran/Patran and precision 
manufacturing is carried out using CNC programing/CNC machines and Rapid Prototyping Machine/ 3D Printer. The 
manufactured components are characterised for mechanical behaviour using UTM, Hardness testers, Impact testers 
etc. The role of CNC machines in increasing flexibility and precision of the product to be manufactured and, increasing 
productivity are illustrated. The Advance Manufacturing Laboratory of institute is equipped with following facilities:
1. CAD Section
2. Precision Machining Section
3. Rapid Prototyping Section
4. Mechanical Behaviour Characterisation section
2. Central Workshop
Annual Report 2016-17

Central workshop is the central facility of Institute, consisting of various workshops such as Welding shop, Carpentry 
shop, Fitting shop, Sheet metal shop, Foundry and Heat treatment shop and Machine shop. Undergraduate Students get 
hands on experience in above sections by doing the job work and carrying out projects as part of their coursework and 
also students utilize the facilities for fabrication purpose of their academic projects. It also supports the R&D projects of 
the institute handled by various Faculty Members and Ph.D. and M.Tech. Thesis work of research scholars by providing 
them assistance in fabrication of their research set-ups.
The following machines and equipment are available in the Central Workshop:
1. 
Welding fume extraction down draft table
2. Multi process welding equipment 
3. Portable single phase MIG/MAG 
4. AC/DC welding equipment 
5. MIG/MAG welding equipment 
6. Treadle operated shearing Machine 
7. Hand operated Folding Machine 
8. Kaizen Muffle Furnace 
9. 
Hand operated Jeeny or Burying Machine 
10. Motorized Circle cutting Machine 
11. 
Hand operated Circle cutting Machine
12. Hydraulic shearing Machine 
13. Portable Heating Plant 
14. Portable hardening plant 
15. Forging Heating Plant
16. Aluminium Melting Plant
17. Fitting Table
18. Mould Making Facility
19. Portable Tool Grinder
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

3. Dynamics and Vibration Laboratory
Dynamics and Vibration Laboratory is well equipped with various mechanisms such as Motorized Gyroscope 
Apparatus, Static and Dynamic Balancing Apparatus, Universal Governor Apparatus, Coriolis Component of Acceleration 
Apparatus, Epicyclic Gear Train Apparatus, Cam Analysis Machine Apparatus, Universal Vibration Apparatus, Stroboscope 
and Tachometer 10 in helping the students to understand the behavior of the various mechanisms and forces acting on 
them.
In addition, the laboratory is also equipped with various vibration measuring instruments for computing the vibration 
characteristics of a machine or structures and equipment for vibrating the machine or structures in order to finds its 
resonance characteristics in various environmental conditions. Following equipment are available for measuring and/or 
testing vibration characteristics of elements to structures.
4. Electro Mechanical (EM) Energy Conversion Laboratory
In order to familiarize students to Electrical Machines properties & characteristics, IIT Jodhpur has established 
“Electro Mechanical Energy Conversion Laboratory” and has continually been developing the potential of its lab facility. 
In this lab, state-of-the-art “Electrical Engineering” facilitates the students to empower their potential by familiarizing 
themselves with the fundamental of electro-mechanical energy conversion process, including several practical & 
industrial applications of machines in true applicable environment. This lab occupies conventional as well as modern 
equipment to fulfil the basic and modern technological requirements with continual developing efforts.
Annual Report 2016-17

5. Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer Laboratory
At Fluid Mechanics Laboratory students learn about the following:
1. Analyses and evaluation of experimental data 
2. Comparison between theoretical models and experimental data 
3. 
How to design a fluid mechanical and heat transfer system e.g. a piping system considering various technical 
aspects, heat exchanger, thermal energy storage, receiver, wind catcher, volumetric air receiver.
In addition to the above, this laboratory aims at generating innovative ideas in students by promoting the design 
of experiments and small scale projects. At present in the fluid mechanics laboratory are conducted experiments on 
losses in pipes (smooth/rough) and fittings (e.g. valves, bends), comparison between different flow meters, particle 
image velocimetry technique, Hot-wire anemometer, labscale sub-sonic wind tunnel for- pressure distribution around a 
cylinder/air-foil, lift and drag balance, boundary layer development, weather monitoring. Furthermore the lab provides 
training on standard software, such as, CFAST for fire simulation.
Currently the Heat Transfer Laboratory is equipped with the demonstration of various thermometry techniques, 
heat exchange system, ventilation system, Natural and forced convection system, heat conduction unit for different 
materials, lab and industrial-scale solar water heater system, and thermal radiation unit. All these equipment are 
installed with respective software.
For testing, calibration and research purpose in these laboratories, various equipment such as Laser Doppler 
Velocimeter with Particle Analyzer, pressure and temperature calibration, blower with variable flow, pressure 
transducers, differential pressure transducers, turbine test rig, turbo-machine test rig, IC engine test rig etc., have been 
procured.
Moreover, multi-purpose test set up is being indigenously designed and the components / sub-systems involved are 
being fabricated locally. This system aims at investigation and evaluation of solar thermal sub-systems such as volumetric 
air receiver, thermal energy storage, air-water heat exchange systems and their simultaneous operation. Devices such 
as earth air heat exchange system, wind catcher, and air-cooled heat exchange systems are being fabricated and tested 
for certain applications.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

6. High Temperature Solar Thermal Laboratory
Six laboratories are being set-up under the MNRE funded project 
entitled as “Establishment of Center of Excellence in Solar Thermal 
Research and Education at IIT Jodhpur”. High Temperature Solar 
Thermal Laboratory is one of these specialized laboratories. The aim 
of this laboratory is:
1. 
Fundamental aspects of fluid flow and heat transfer related 
problems, like, dust deposition
2. 
Design and analysis of sub-systems for concentrated solar 
thermal systems
Some of the sub-systems being designed and analyzed in this 
laboratory are:
a. 
Open Volumetric Air Receiver for process heat applications
b. Compact heat exchanger
c. Solar Convective Furnace
This laboratory includes test facility, such as, Solar Air Tower 
Simulator (SATS) facility, advanced research grade equipment like 
Laser Doppler Velocimetry. SATS facility includes, open volumetric 
air receiver, thermal energy storage, air-water heat exchanger and is 
being extended with solar convective furnace.
7. Material Testing and Solid Mechanics Laboratory
The material testing lab of the institute provides facilities to test samples of different types of materials to find out 
their mechanical properties like modulus of elasticity, tensile and compressive strength, stress strain curve, bending 
properties, hardness etc. The lab is equipped with following test equipment:
1. Universal testing Machine 5-50 kN 
2. Rockwell Tester 
3. Brinell Tester 
4. Vickers Tester 
5. Poldi Hardness Tester 
6. Portable hardness tester
8. Renewable Energy Laboratory
To resolve most daunting challenge of this world energy needs and 
also our nation’s heavy reliance on fossil fuels, Renewable Energy 
Laboratory (REL) promotes rigorous and objective empirical research at 
IIT Jodhpur on issues related to energy and environment. REL focuses 
on designing, testing, and disseminating renewable and efficient energy 
system. The mission of REL is to help these technologies to realize their 
full potential to contribute to environmentally sustainable development 
in industrial and developing countries. In the renewable energy field, 
expert faculty and students at this Laboratory are currently striving to 
create an innovative system to efficiently harness energy from sunlight 
and wind power. REL has computer interfaced systems and 
approximately 30 students can work at a time. Students are the greatest 
resource of REL and IIT Jodhpur has made substantial commitment to 
the area of renewable energy and been providing all required resources to execute a viable plan and innovative research 
at REL. One aspect of the evolution of REL is the development of collaborative partnership with other academic and 
industrial groups. In the near future, it will be a hub for training and public-private sector collaboration. Recently, the lab 
has started a consultancy project, with Panasonic R & D India Pvt. Ltd., on the prototyping of microbial fuel cells. In 
addition, the lab has started work on data collection, interpretation, and analysis of PV power plants less than 5 MW in 
Rajasthan and Gujarat. The Renewable Energy Laboratory uses the following equipment:
Annual Report 2016-17

1. 
Wind power of 2KW Charge controller ~12V, Synchronous generator with permanent magnets ~12V, Lamp board 
~12V, Off grid inverter etc.
2. 
PEM Fuel cell Fuel cell with DC converter, Electronic load, Metal hydride storage cell, Electrolyser, 
200W/20V/10A.
3. 
Advanced Photovoltaics Solar module simulation model 23V/2A, Solar module with solar altitude emulator, Solar 
charge controller 12/24V, 6A, Solar accumulator 12V, 7Ah, Off grid inverter 230V, 275VA etc.
4. Combined RF/DC Sputtering Unit for Coatings Applications.
9. Solar Radiation Laboratory
The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) has selected the IIT Jodhpur campus site as one of their solar 
radiation centers. Solar radiation measurement (Global and Direct), Humidity, Ambient temperature, Rain gauge and 
wind speed measurement are carried out at this center and the data is transmitted via a satellite link to the MNRE 
nodal center C-WET in Chennai. The instruments in this laboratory are powered by a couple of solar panels. The data 
collected from this center enables the solar resource assessment required for the setting up of solar thermal and solar 
photovoltaic power plants as outlined in the Jawaharlal Nehru National Solar Mission (JNNSM).
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Department of Physics
The Department of Physics has the following laboratories for teaching and research purposes.
1. Biomolecular Information Processing laboratory
This laboratory is involved in the understanding of information processing by various kinds of biomolecules and 
related synthetic molecules. The process involves in using a single molecule first and then a group of molecule on a given 
interface. The interaction among the molecules in a given external stimuli will help us understanding the communication 
among them.
2. Magnetic Property Measurement System (MPMS/SQUID)
IIT Jodhpur has created an excellent facility in the field of material characterization. Recently an additional dimension 
has been added to it by procuring magnetic property measurement system (MPMS). MPMS (SQUID) is getting installed in 
coming few months. This will provide a wide temperature 2 K – 1000 K range for both DC and AC magnetic measurements 
in conjunction with field dependent magnetic measurements. Such measurements will help to understand magnetic 
properties and associated spin dynamics in magnetic materials.
3. Materials Analysis Laboratory
The research focuses on the development of novel materials for different applications including materials for 
energy generation and storage. The current work includes the development of solution processable CIGS compound 
semiconductor materials for solar cell applications and transition metal oxide based materials for lithium ion batteries
Annual Report 2016-17

and supercapacitor applications. The laboratory is equipped with synthesis of bulk and thin films techniques such as 
sputtering, sol-gel process assembly etc., and numerous characterization techniques such as X-ray diffraction, Scanning 
electron microscope, Optical spectroscopic techniques, LCR meter, ferroic measurement system for bulk samples etc.
In addition, the group is also focusing on the development of multifunctional materials for different applications such 
as solar selective coatings, ferroic materials for high frequency absorbing system, and magnetic particles for different 
applications. The laboratory is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities to carry out thermal analysis, electrochemical 
analysis, surface morphology studies, separation techniques for chemicals, electrical conductivity measurement devices, 
glove box etc.
4. Physics Laboratory
The mission of the Physics laboratory at IIT Jodhpur is to provide students with experiential knowledge in basic 
physics. This laboratory has state-of-the-art facilities including specific equipment and is currently offering different 
experiments in Mechanics, Waves, Electricity, Magnetism, and Optics. Now the lab has facilities for experimenting with 
Speed of Light, Zeeman Effect, and Michelson Interferometer.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Health Center
IIT Jodhpur provides round the clock health care facilities to Students, Faculty and Staff Members of the Institute, 
at its residential campuses. The Health Center has five doctors and five supporting staff members. Both the Residential 
Campuses have Health Centers for providing routine health services. Due to geographical locations of the two Campuses 
and the type of the residents, Health Center at GPRA Campus provides services to the patients round the clock, while 
medical services are available at BSNL Campus for limited hours in the evening, typically from 5 pm to 10 pm. In addition 
to the availability of medical services at Residential Campuses, medical assistance is available at Academic Campus. This 
assistance is normally provided from 3 pm to 4.30 pm, when laboratory sessions are in full swing and medical assistance 
may be required. The Institute has its ambulance services available round-the-clock.
Besides the Health Centers, the Institute has empanelled five hospitals in the city of Jodhpur. Two of these hospitals 
have specializations in ophthalmology and one in orthopedic, and the remaining two hospitals are the best known 
general purpose hospitals in the city. For specialized medical attention doctors at our Health Centers refer patients 
to one of these hospitals. In addition to these five hospitals, the city has a Medical College and three hospitals run by 
Government of Rajasthan. Also, the city All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), which is nearly 12 km GPRA 
Campus and nearly 5 km from BSNL Campus. Also, the Institute has constituted a Medical Board consisting of Senior 
Doctors from the Medical College and the AIIMS; advice is taken for enhancement of medical services of the Health 
Centers and in critical medical cases. IIT Jodhpur has empanelled two hospitals in Jaipur. These two hospitals are 
accredited by National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare, and patients can be referred to these hospitals 
as per the need of the treatment.
The Health Center coordinates and supervises the treatment of students, employees, and their dependents during 
hospitalization in other hospitals that are empaneled by the Institute, to provide in-patient care. Also, an ambulance is 
available in the GPRA Residential Campus for attending to any medical emergencies.
On request, the Health Center extends its health care services to Institute visitors during their stay in the residential 
campus. Under emergency circumstances medical services are also extended to the non-IIT Jodhpur community 
residents in the residential campus. Details like patient records, medicine procurement/disbursement, assets, equipment 
of Health Center are all computerized.
Sports Facilities
Sports and games facilities to students are provided at four places, namely, the hostel premises, academic campus, 
playground of Vidhyashram International School, and in the new campus area of Jai Narayan Vyas University. Conveyance 
is taken care of by the Office of Logistics in the Institute. Students also enjoy a gymnasium facility at the residential 
campus.
SC/ST Cell
An SC/ST Cell for ensuring the proper utilization and adaptation of reservation policies and guidelines issued by the 
Government of India, is functional at IIT Jodhpur. The Cell deals with matters related to grievances received from SC/ST 
and OBC employees and students in the Institute. The Cell acts as a communicator between the Institute and the Ministry 
of Human Research and Development in matters related to SC/ST and OBC students and employees in the Institute. IIT 
Jodhpur has adopted the reservation policy while selecting the students for MCM scholarship. In addition, a substantial 
number of SC students whose total family income is limited to Rs. 6 lakhs per annum, are deriving the benefit of Central 
Sector Scholarship of Top Class Education available from the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment.
Annual Report 2016-17

Women Cell
The Women Cell, IIT Jodhpur, functions in accordance with the provisions contained in 
Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.
The following are some activities organized by the Women Cell during FY 2016-17.
Celebration of 2017 International Women’s Day
The 2017 International Women’s Day was pre-celebrated at the Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur on 7 March 
2016 at 4.30 pm. The program was organized by the Women Cell, IIT Jodhpur. The Women Cell, IIT Jodhpur, on the 
occasion of the International Women’s Day, organized a Micro-Book Writing Competition their Students and Employees, 
ahead of time. During this program, Prizes and Certificates of Appreciation were given away to the winners. The event 
had an invited talk by Latha Menon, noted ad film and documentary maker based in Chennai.
Kshema Prakash, Convener, Women Cell introducing 
program to audience
Latha Menon addressing the audience
Audience enjoying the program
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Student Activities
Students Gymkhana
The “Student Gymkhana”, IIT Jodhpur, is divided into five “societies”, and in turn each society is divided into several 
clubs. These societies fulfil the varied interests of the students and contribute to their holistic development. These six 
societies are:
1. Academic, Research and Management (ARM) Society,
2. Media, Arts and Design (MAD) Society,
3. Nurturing-Understanding Technology and Science (NUTS) Society,
4. Sports, Adventures, Games and Explorations (SAGE) Society, and
5. Writing, Awareness, Vocals, Entertainment, Social (WAVES) Society.
Academic, Research and Management (ARM) Society
The Academic, Research and Management (ARM) Society is a platform for all activities and initiatives related to 
Academics and Research. It encourages academic and research activities in Institute among students. Also, the society 
works towards effective involvement of students in the decision making. The Mission of the ARM Society is:
a. To strengthen Student-Faculty interaction and take them beyond only formal association;
b. 
To serve as a platform for students to undertake research projects under Faculty Members, and to create an 
environment of cognizance in the student community pertaining to the real-life problems; and
c. 
To organize various technical meets and seminars to expose students to the recent discoveries and 
technological advancements and the innumerable opportunities that they can pursue.
Annual Report 2016-17

The functions and responsibilities of the ARM Society are:
a. To help individual students address their specific academic concerns;
b. To coordinate with the centralized academic facilities such as Computer Centre, Library and Reading Room;
c. To support the Senate of the Institute on matters such as revision of academic curriculum; and
d. To share concerns of the students on academic and research matters.
The society deals with all matters regarding public relations and management of the various activities of all the 
societies of Students’ Gymkhana which take place in the Institute. It helps in enhancing one’s personality, management 
skills, public speaking, writing and coordination with student colleagues, towards overall development of students. The 
following clubs operate under the society:
a.	
Promotions Club
The Club writes content as well as reports for various Intra and Inter collegiate fests, special events and seminars, 
which are held throughout the year. Also, it coordinates for the content to be published in local media.
b. Public Speaking and Personality Development Club
Public speaking is one very important aspect which shows the personality of an individual. The club organizes 
sessions to hone public speaking skills, increase confidence levels and makes students proficient in Public Speaking.
c.	
Entrepreneurship Club
The club collaborates with the E-cells of other institutes and conducts various seminars and useful activities 
related to entrepreneurship.
d. Resource Management Club
The main work of this club is to manage resources during various inter and intra-level activities efficiently.
e.	
Finance and Case-Studies Club
Many individuals are faced with investing and financing decisions at some point in their life. Having a firm grasp 
over financial matters aids them in making those decisions. The club helps students undertake Case Studies which 
help to see how the complexities of real life situations influence decision making.
f. 
Leadership Enhancement and All-round Development (LEAD) Club
This initiative aims at enhancing the overall personality and soft skills of the students, and prepares them for the 
professional world. Workshops organized by professionals skilled in personality grooming, resume writing, personal 
interview, etc. Group discussions, mock interviews and public-speaking sessions are conducted to train students 
for interviews and help in their personality development. Students get a real-world exposure, while getting expert 
guidance not only from professionals, but also from senior students.
Media, Arts, and Design (MAD) Society
Creativity is more than just being different. Anybody can plan being weird; that’s easy. What’s hard is to be simple. 
Making the simple, awesomely simple, that’s creativity. The society makes people develop their imagination, their 
talent; teaching them the advancement in technology to enhance their knowledge in their field of interest. The society 
has its independent activities, workshops and competitions under the following areas of interest:
a. 
Animatrons (The Animation Club)
The Club teaches students to bring the animator out of them, via workshops by professionals and its own team. 
With the blend of Stop Motion Animation and Software Animation, the Club moves towards paper animation, 2D 
and 3D graphics animation, pixilation, flash light animation.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

b. Ateliers (The Fine Arts Club)
To play with colours is the passion of this Club. Training is imparted to students via workshops and competitions 
in fine or decorative arts. We organize a lot of activities of interest like painting, sketching, glass etching, face and 
T-shirt Painting, wax carving, and graffiti workshops. This Club gives shape to various festivals of IIT Jodhpur.
c. Designerds (The Designing Club)
The Club designs logos, posters, newsletters, T-shirts, etc. The Club has given some of the best designers, 
who can train with software, like Adobe Photoshop, Indesign and Illustrator. The Club members excel in graphic 
designing which promotes thoughts and imagination. Also, the club has won competitions in Mood Indigo – IIT 
Bombay.
d. Frame-X (The Film Making and Video Editing Club)
The Club makes videos, record and edits them. The Club, constantly and actively, takes part in various Inter-
College Fests presenting short films or documentaries which have gained popularity. The Club members use the 
most sophisticated HandyCams, GoPro cameras dealing with software, like Windows Movie Maker, Sony Vegas and 
Adobe After Effects.
e. Porta Talkies (The Movie Screening Club)
The Club is responsible for screening of movies, matches and on demand talks.
f. Shutterbugs (The Photography and Photo-Editing Club)
The Club consistently holds its workshops on Photoshop and provides hands on experience on technically sound 
semipro DSLR Cameras. The Club holds responsibility of all media coverage of student activities IIT Jodhpur.
Nurturing-Understanding Technology and Science (NUTS) Society
With the thought “Imagination is more important than knowledge”, the Science and Technology Society (NUTS) of 
IIT Jodhpur provides students an opportunity to think beyond the conventional boundaries of science, to realize their 
dreams and develop the technology for the next generation. The following clubs operate under this society:
a. Aeromodelling Club
The Aeromodelling Club is a group for aviation and Aeromodelling enthusiasts in the Institute. The Club provides 
students an opportunity to make rockets, gliders, planes, hovercrafts and fly them up in the air. The activities of the 
Club include lectures and workshops on various Aeromodelling and aviation topics and working on small projects.
b. Automobile Club
The Club promotes students to design and make their own car. The Club has developed an eco-friendly manual 
cum electric driven vehicle. The Club is associated with an international body, Society of Automotive Engineers 
(SAE), and encourages and prepares students to participate in national level competitions such as Effi Cycle and 
Baja.
c. Astronomy Club
The Club organizes regular lectures and discussions to help students develop a better understanding of those 
astronomy phenomenons in nature. The Club made a record at the Inter IIT-Tech Meet 2014 by detecting 72 objects 
in the overnight observatory competition “The Messier Marathon”.
d. Electronics Club
The Club makes students familiar with electronic circuits, and teaches them skills like working on mini computers 
(such as beagle bone, Raspberry pie). Also, the club makes students familiar with analog as well as digital electronics 
through various lectures and competitions organized throughout the year.
Annual Report 2016-17

e. Robotics Club
The Club conducts regular lectures and workshops to provide students a hand on experience on technologies, 
such as DTMF, image processing, and motion sensing. Today the Club is an active platform for students to display 
and develop their practical machine-building skills and knowledge.
f. Programming and Web Designing Club
With regular lectures, competitions and winter coding camp, the Club provides students a chance to learn from 
people around them and improve their coding skills. Students get a chance to sit with a group of like-minded people 
and prepare for various national and international level coding competitions.
g. Science Club
The Club provides students an opportunity to solve the Rubik’s Cube, make their own angry bird station, and play 
with air gun, Rube Goldberg etc. The activities of this club tests students’ imagination skills and help to improve it.
Sports, Adventures, Games and Explorations (SAGE) Society
Sports are known for producing the most remarkable athletes, colourful characters, influential leaders and 
memorable heroes. IIT Jodhpur Sports and Games Society reflects the same spirit of introducing sporting activities 
to the campus community. This society aims to promote sports and exercise in the true spirit of sportsmanship and 
motivate students to work with team spirit. The Society strives and endeavours to inculcate and introduce this essential 
activity as a part of the routine in every student’s life. All efforts are made to bring out and encourage the sports person 
in each one under the guidance of professional coaches and with best sporting facility.
Individuals can be strong on their own, but they are much stronger in a team. Victory achieved alone can be sweet, 
but there is nothing sweeter than sharing that moment with fellow members. One of the rare times in life one learns to 
play with his friends and some of his enemies, and yet learns to respect each one of them for the innate respect of the 
sport. That is the essence of introducing sports in a student’s life to instill the qualities of vigour, sacrifice and overall 
sportsman spirit. The society organizes the Institute team that participates in Inter IIT Sports Meet held annually at any 
one of the IITs. Inter-IIT Championship title is much coveted in the whole IIT Jodhpur family. It is the place where every 
sports student is given the opportunity to showcase his/her talent in respective sports and to wear the jersey and run 
around the grounds representing the glorified history of respective IITs along with the responsibility to continue the 
legacy. Every Inter-IIT player has this unique urge to win the game for the pride and the honour of the Institute, for 
the blood, and the tears and the sweat to make a team and to earn the spot. The Institute has representation in the 
sports, like Aquatics, Athletics, Badminton, Basketball, Cricket, Football, Lawn Tennis, Squash, Table Tennis, Volleyball, 
and Weightlifting at Inter IIT Sports Meet.
The Institute has many sporting events lined up throughout the year, which act as a platform to showcase your 
talent and to keep the adrenaline levels racing. Every year the council organizes an Intra-Institute Sports Festival called 
“KRIDANSH”. This sports fest is designed to attract mass participation. It sees the best sporting talents in the Institute 
pitted against each other to fight for the glory of their respective branches. It has games like tug of wars, Kho-Kho and 
Kabaddi, along with regulars.
In addition to sports, the society arranges several adventure tours and coordinates the Carrom Club, the Chess Club, 
the Skating Club, the Yoga Club and the Joggers Club.
Writing, Awareness, Vocals, Entertainment, and Social (WAVES) Society
WAVES is the fountainhead of all cultural activities in the institute. It provides students opportunities to pursue their 
passion for performing arts and in honing their aesthetic sensibilities. Under WAVES, there are five Clubs, which function 
throughout the year.
a. Dance Club
The Dance Club organises activities ranging from Intra Institute to Inter-Collegiate events with a special emphasis 
on workshops on different dance forms. The team, with name ‘dEFEATtHEbEAT’, has participated in different 
college festivals across country, including Chaos (IIMA) and Mood Indigo (IITB) and has also been selected in Indian 
Hip Hop Dance Championship auditions.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

b. Music Club
The Music Club is all about passion and the platform you need to showcase them. Spanning from the students’ 
band performances for freshers, to the live stages of college festivals, Music Club brings opportunities for all the 
interested students. The major highlights include Unplugged Nights and the Musical Extravaganza. Apart from 
these, music learning sessions are conducted for the beginners.
c. Quiz Club
The main aim of the Club is to generate interest in quizzing as a fun activity that everyone can indulge in and 
at the same time gain some handful amount of knowledge. The Club organizes interesting Quiz contests/sessions 
throughout the year to expose students to the artistic world of Quizzing and provide a platform to contest at 
several national and intra-collegiate quizzes.
d. Drama Club
The Club, also known as “DRAMEBAAZ”, performs a variety of plays which are both didactic and simultaneously 
entertaining. Nukkad performance is the highlight of the Republic and Independence Day celebrations in the 
Institute, and is quite applauded by the audience, leaving them awestruck every time. Also, it performs stage plays.
e. Literature Club
The Club works on the vision to explore a whole new world of books, belles-letters and the magic of words. The 
Club is not all about writing, but hosts fun events like Jam, Shout, Hurdles, and Debates. Language is no bar; we 
have both Hindi and English Literature Clubs.
g. SPIC MACAY Club
The Society for the Promotion of Indian Classical Music And Culture Among Youth (SPIC MACAY) is a society that helps 
protect and popularize our rich Indian heritage. SPIC MACAY IIT Jodhpur Chapter was formalized in the year 2012.
Student Fests & Events
The Student Gymkhana of the Institute organizes events with dual purpose. On the one side, these events help 
engage students in creative work during their leisure hours and thereby build skills and interests in them. And, on the 
other side, these events help students to self-organise themselves and provide platforms for others to excel.
The events organized by the Student Gymkhana can be seen in two streams, namely:
1. Inter-Institute Festivals and Tournaments; and
2. Intra-Institute Festivals and Championships.
The students were successful in nurturing a culture filled with energy and initiative. They have organized events which 
served as a medium of communication and bonding amongst themselves. Major festivals like Ganesh Chaturthi, Diwali, 
Sankranti, Eid and Holi were celebrated with great enthusiasm. Sports activities were also regularly conducted to 
encourage sportsmanship, which were supported by the Faculty Members. The following are some of the major student 
activities that had taken place in the campus in the year 2016-17.
Inter-Institute Festivals
Varchas
Varchas is the inter-collegiate sports festival of IIT Jodhpur. The festival celebrates the spirit of sportsmanship and 
serves as a platform to showcase countless hours of perspiration put in by college teams to achieve excellence in sports. 
Varchas was first organized in the year 2011, with a vision of promoting sports among the colleges of India, and providing 
the athletes in India, a platform to showcase their talent. Competitions are held in the fields of football, cricket, table 
tennis, lawn tennis, badminton, squash, volleyball, basketball and athletics in national level stadiums of Jodhpur. Varchas 
promotes healthy competition and is a great opportunity for the teams to prove their mettle in their respective sports.
Annual Report 2016-17

Moreover, belonging to the educated core of the country, the students of IIT Jodhpur try to fulfil their social 
obligation through “SOCH -The Social Aspect of Varchas”. SOCH is a platform where the students take up pertinent 
social issues and try to find possible solutions through discussions and debates; spread awareness and conduct drives 
to involve people spanning across varied backgrounds. An attempt is made to create a profound social impact for the 
amelioration of the society.
In 2016, this sports festival was organized from 29 September to 2 October. The Chief Guest at Varchas 2016 was 
Krishna Poonia, who is a Padma Shri and Arjuna Awardee for her performance in Discus Throw. Varchas 2016 witnessed 
a footfall of over 1000 participants and various competitions were conducted in events like athletics, volleyball, cricket, 
football, table tennis, basketball, aquatics, chess and badminton.
Chief Guest at the Opening Ceremony of Varchas 2016
IITJ Student, the torch bearer of Varchas 2016
Women’s Volley Ball Match during Varchas 2016
Winners being awarded
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

“Awaz”: A SOCH event chaired by Professor H. C. Verma, Professor, IIT Kanpur
A “Night Run”, which is a part of Varchas 2016, was organized on 1 October2016 at 9 pm. The benefit of this run was 
accorded for the welfare of blind students. An overwhelming response was received from the people and athletes from 
across the state of Rajasthan. The fest concluded on 2 October 2016.
IGNUS
IGNUS, the techno-cultural fest of IIT Jodhpur was celebrated from 23-26 February 2017. The flagship events that 
were organised during this fest were Robosoccer, Nrityansh, Clash of Bands, Robowar, and Antarang. Workshops on 
useful and interesting topics like Internet of Things (IoT), Sixth Sense Robotics, Android App Development were also 
organized. Famous singer Mika Singh performed during the pronite.
Technical & Cultural Events during IGNUS 2017
Intra-Institute Festivals
IIT Jodhpur Student Gymkhana hosts Intra-Institute Festivals for its own student community. They are:
a. Spandan
Spandan is the Intra-Institute cultural fest of IIT Jodhpur, usually the first fest of the session. It draws an 
enthusiastic crowd, eager to portray their talents in the cultural arena. Versatility in the various categories is 
extensive, with competitions organized in fields, like drama, dance, singing, literature, photography events, 
informals and fashion show. Three days of Spandan awakens the whole campus leaving the students to prepare all 
night. Spandan is one of the first public occasions to take place in the year, and hence it brings together students 
from all years to interact with each other. Participation with zeal and showcasing the hidden creativity tamed inside 
an individual, are the motives of the fest.
Annual Report 2016-17

b. Nimble
Nimble, the Intra-College technical fest provides a platform to the techno buds of the Institute to show their 
hidden talent. Nimble comprises of four action packed days, filled with a great variety of tech and science events 
ranging from intense mind boggling events (such as robotics, electronics and programming) to fun filled events (like 
angry bird, quizzes, and crypto)). Apart from the events, talks are organized by eminent personalities in the field 
of Science and Technology, to motivate students to work harder, as there is no end to discoveries and inventions.
c. Kalakriti
Kalakriti is a mixed bag of fun-filled competitions, interesting workshops and back-to-back movie screenings. 
“Because everything you can imagine is real!”: this line wakes up the dormant talent amongst students and 
the output is sudden burst of colors. With a multitude of events ranging from Fine Arts and Clay Modelling, to 
Photography and Video Editing, ‘Kalakriti’ witnesses huge participation from designers and non-designers alike. 
Events like ‘Scribble Day’ brings together the entire final year batch of students, whom all the other students bid 
adieu and leave a farewell message or graffiti on a common piece of cloth given to them. A great way to bring smile 
on everyone’s face, ‘Kalakriti’ succeeds in spreading joy, unity and togetherness in the small tight-knit community 
of ours.
d. Kridansh
Kridansh is organized to give sports enthusiasts a chance to pursue their passion in sports. Matches are 
organized both outdoor and indoor, such as Gully Cricket, Street Football and Single Court Basketball, Chess, 
Carroms, Badminton, Table Tennis, and Swimming. Full-fledged dedication from participants and organizers makes 
Kridansh one of the liveliest events of the year.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Counselling Service
The prime objective of the team is to organize the Orientation Program. This is especially tailored to bring the freshers 
up to speed with life in Institute, while maintaining a homely feel, and gently enabling the transition into this Institute. 
The Counseling Service has been an integral part of the Institute since its inception. Every year, it strives hard to ensure 
that every student gets to know IITJ at its most intricate levels, and absorb all that the Institute has to offer. Further, the 
Counseling Service Team takes care of special language needs that some students might face during this time. It spares 
no effort in this, and work towards making this transition memorable throughout their lives.
The Counseling Service Team consists of a Faculty Advisor with 30 students (called Student Guides) bestowed to 
work for welfare of students. A Student Guide is the backbone of the team, with every guide taking 8-10 freshers under 
his/her vision and guidance. The Student Guide works towards helping the student adjusts well in the hostel and in 
his academic life. The Student Guide keeps in continuous touch with the student and his/her family. The team ensures 
that not only the student, but his/her parents too get the opportunity to interact with the Student Guide, to maintain a 
healthy relationship. As part of this Counseling, it is the duty of the team to promote development of the student in all 
three aspects, namely:
1.	
Academics
2.	
Extra-Curricular
3.	
Personal 
For this purpose, voluntary, confidential and free counselling service is offered for a wide range of issues that include:
1.	

Academic support: Providing information about the different academic programs of the Institute, imparting efficient 
time management skills and study skills;
2.	
Personal: Overcoming homesickness, adjusting to the new environment and related difficulties; 
3.	
Counselling advocacy: Psycho-education and referral services to students;
4. Interaction with the Institute and the existing body of students; and
5.	
Encouraging students to discover their extra-curricular interests/hobbies. 
Counselling service also focuses on the concerns and difficulties of the students by providing personal guidance to deal 
with problems arising during their college life at the Institute. The following activities are undertaken by the Counseling 
Services team:
1.	
Maintaining the Institute as a ragging free campus;
2.	

Organizing “Orientation Program” every year, for the sophomore batch so as to make them acquainted with the 
culture of IIT Jodhpur;
3.	
Organizing workshops related to:
a. Career counselling,
b. Stress management,
c. Time management,
d. Health care and hygiene,
e. Vocational training,
f. Relationship problems,
g. Coping with homesickness and
h. Addiction and others;
4. Conducting motivational talks by eminent speakers;
5.	
Addressing the academic problems of the students by conducting: 
a. English language sessions for students from vernacular background, and
b. Basic Information Technology (IT) skill building sessions etc.;
6. Organizing interaction building events amongst students of different batches, and with faculty members etc.; and
7.	
Individually attending to problems of students with poor academic performance.
Launched in 2014, the IIT Jodhpur Counseling Service is continuing the Campus Mentoring System. In this system, a 
group of students are associated with one Faculty Member and one Staff Member, who in turn act as the Mentors of 
the students.
Annual Report 2016-17

S. No. Company Number of Students
Selected per Branch Total Number of
Students Placed
1. Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) 1 1 2
2. Barclays 1 1
3. Morgan Stanley 2 1 3
4. Arcesium 1 1
5. Amazon 6 1 7
6. Nucleus Software 1 1
7. Tata Motors 4 4
8. Tata Consultancy Services 2 1 4 1 8
9. National Engineering Services 2 2
10. Mahindra & Mahindra 2 2
11. Crisil 1 1
13. Oxigen Services 1 1
15. Yoodle 1 1
16. Accenture 2 2
17. Directi 1 1
Student Placement Cell
The Office of Student Placements (OSP) is run and managed by the students in sync with the official authorities, 
thereby taking care of the placement and internship procedures. The students coordinate the job of contacting various 
companies, their interaction with the students, arranging pre-placement talks, tests, and interviews.
In 2016-17, companies in core engineering, information and communication technology, and banking sector, 
government and public sector organizations have visited IIT Jodhpur for placements.
Total 69 of our students i.e., 67 B.Tech. Students and 2 M.Tech. Students, have been placed with different companies 
in the year 2016-17.
Their details of companies and placements are as below.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S. No. Company Number of Students
Selected per Branch Total Number of
Students Placed
18. Voylla 1 1 1 3
19. Cognizant Solutions 1 2 3 6
20. Apttus 2 3 5
21. Infosys 5 5
22. Microsoft 3 1 4
Total 27 12 12 13 3 67
S. No. Company Number of Students
Selected per Branch Total Number of
Students Placed
1. Hyundai 1 1
2. Tata Consultancy Services 1 1
Total 1 1 2
Annual Report 2016-17

1. Himanshu Takwani B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering) AIR 7 (EE)
2. Chetan Gupta B.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering) AIR 22 (ME)
3. Sunil Saran B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering) AIR 24 (EE)
Alumni Relations
The Office of Alumni Relations of the Institute works for the alumni of the Institute, no matter where the alumni 
live. The Office is a canvas of collective experiences and shared memories. We urge the Alumni to share with us your 
stories of both struggle and success. As brand ambassadors of the Institute and torch bearers of change, this special 
bond between the Alumni and the Institute should be the catalyst for valuable exchange between the Institute and the 
big-wide world.
The Office of Alumni Relations is managed by the Alumni Relations Committee, consisting of two Faculty Members 
and four Students.
All students completing any specific degree program at IIT Jodhpur become Life Members with the Office of Alumni 
Relations and no fee is associated with the membership.
IIT Jodhpur alumni secure ranks in GATE 2017
The following B.Tech. Students of Class of 2012 have secured ranks in GATE 2017 exam.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Program Year of Registration Number
Total 149
Total 44
Total 39
Total 528
Grand Total 760
Registered Students in IIT Jodhpur
IIT Jodhpur has, as on 31 March 2017, a total of 760 students registered in various programs offered by the Institute. 
The table and chart below depict the program-wise break-up of the registered students in the Institute.
Annual Report 2016-17

Sl. No. Roll No. Name Center /Department
1. PG201081502 Dharmendra Singh Rajpurohit Energy
2. PG201181001 Deepesh Patidar Energy
3. PG201181003 Pura Ram Energy
4. PG201181004 Vikas Pratap Singh Energy
5. PG201181005 Vikash Chandra Janu Energy
6. PG201181501 Lokesh Saini Energy
7. PG201181502 Surendra Singh Barala Energy
8. PG201182005 Puneet Kumar Jain ICT
9. PG201182006 Ram Niwash Mahia ICT
10. PG201182007 Ravi Raj Choudhary ICT
11. PG201182009 Sapana Ranwa ICT
12. PG201182010 Saurabh Maheshwari ICT
13. PG201182501 Amit Bhati ICT
14. PG201183001 Rohan Sharma SS
15. PG201183501 Parmod Kumar SS
16. PG201183502 Preeti Yadav SS
17. PG201281001 Ajay Jain Energy
18. PG201281002 Dharmesh Kumar Energy
19. PG201281003 Poonam Sharma Energy
20. PG201281004 Shejale Kiran Prakash Energy
21. PG201282002 Deepak Bharti ICT
22. PG201282003 Giriraj Vyas ICT
23. PG201282007 Rakesh Kanji ICT
24. PG201282009 Suresh Dahiya ICT
25. PG201282010 Vaibhav Saini ICT
26. PG201282012 Vibha Sahlot ICT
27. PG201282501 Shilpa Pandey ICT
28. PG201283001 Anoopa Joshi SS
29. PG201283003 Manvendra Sharma SS
30. PG201283005 Parvinder Singh SS
31. PG201283006 Pradumn Kumar Pandey SS
32. PG201283007 Rakesh Kumar SS
33. PG201283008 Ranveer Singh SS
34. PG201381001 Aditya Raw Gautam Energy
35. PG201381002 Goutam Kumar Gupta Energy
36. PG201381003 Om Prakash Mahela Energy
37. PG201381005 Rohitash Kumar Energy
38. PG201382005 Vipin Joshi ICT
39. PG201382002 Anurag Sahu SS
40. PG201383002 Dipti Trivedi SS
41. PG201383005 Raj Kumar Satankar SS
42. PG201383006 Shraddha Choudhary SS
43. PG201383501 Deepak Kumar SS
44. PG201383502 Dileep Kumar SS
45. PG201383503 Manish Raghav SS
46. PG201383504 Satendra Pal Singh SS
47. PG201383506 Vishal Sharma SS
48. PG201384002 Ankisha Vijay BISS
Following are lists of students registered in various programs offered by the Institute, detailed according to the Centers 
and Branches of the various programs.
Ph.D. Students
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl. No. Roll No. Name Center /Department
49. PG201384003 Anuj Kumar Bharti BISS
50. PG201384004 Arun Kumar Upadhyay BISS
51. PG201384005 Ayeman Amanullah BISS
52. PG201384006 Bhubanesh Rathore BISS
53. PG201384007 Kriti Dubey BISS
54. PG201384008 Megha Singh BISS
55. PG201384009 Nidhi Sharma BISS
56. PG201384010 Rahul Badhwar BISS
57. PG201384011 Rakhi N. K. BISS
58. PG201384012 Ridhi Aggarwal BISS
59. PG201384013 Shalini Singh BISS
60. PG201384014 Vibhuti Joshi BISS
61. P14EE001 Ajay Kumar Mahato EE
62. P14ME001 Gurveer Singh ME
63. P14ME003 Rakesh Joshi ME
64. P14ME004 Ram Niwas Verma ME
65. P14ME005 Sandeep Gupta ME
66. P14CS001 Hiteshi Jain CSE
67. P14CS002 Ravi Sharma CSE
68. P14PH001 Rajesh Kumar PH
69. P14PH002 Sanjoy Chatterjee PH
70. P14MT001 Supriyo Dutta MT
71. P14BL002 Sachin Vyas BL
72. P14BS001 Alankar Agarwal BISS
73. P14BS002 Bibin G Anand BISS
74. P14BS004 Manju Kumari BISS
75. P14BS005 Shivanjali Saxena BISS
76. P14BS006 Vandana BISS
77. P14BS007 Ribhav Mishra BISS
78. P14HS003 Saina Maidullah HSS
79. P14SS001 Brajesh Kumar Shukla SS
80. P14EN001 Priya Malpani Energy
81. P14BL003 Amitap Khandelwal BL
82. P14CHM001 Erum Gul Naz CHM
83. P14CHM002 Abhinav Srivastava CHM
84. P14ME007 Amrita Kaurwar ME
85. P14ME008 Phadatare Hanmant Pandurang ME
86. P14PH003 Javid Ahmad Naikoo PH
87. P14PH004 Vijendra Singh Bhati PH
88. P14VSS001 Adarsh Nigam EE
89. P14VSS002 Amrik Singh EE
90. P14VSS003 Ishan Varun EE
91. P14VSS004 Rahul Kumar EE
92. P14VSS005 Nupur Rathore EE
93. P14VSS006 Parveen EE
94. P15ME001 Devendra Singh ME
95. P15ME002 Lochan Sharma ME
96. P15ME003 Pravesh Kumar ME
97. P15ME004 Sumit Mahajan ME
98. P15CY001 Devika Laisharam CHM
99. P15CY002 Hargeet Kaur CHM
100. P15CY003 Jyoti Faujdar CHM
Annual Report 2016-17

Sl. No. Roll No. Name Center /Department
101. P15CY004 Anchal Gahlaut CHM
102. P15CY005 Bhawna Chaubey CHM
103. P15CY006 Arpita Srivastava CHM
104. P15CY007 Sumitra Godara CHM
105. P15CS001 Arka Ujjal Dey CSE
106. P15BL001 Ishan Agrawal BL
107. P15PH001 Chandni Kumari PH
108. P15PH002 Jyoti Saini PH
109. P15PH003 Khushboo Dixit PH
110. P15MA001 Divya Gupta MT
111. P15MA001 Rohit Kumar MT
112. P15EE001 Abhishek Sahu EE
113. P15EE002 Arpita Jaitawat EE
114. P15EE003 Poonam Sahu EE
115. P15EE004 Shivam Chaturvedi EE
116. P15VSS001 Divya Srivastava VSS
117. P15VSS002 Divya Sharma VSS
118. P15VSS003 Tushar Shankar Shinde VSS
119. P15VSS005 Mahmood Shaik VSS
120. P15VSS006 Gajendra Singh Chawda VSS
121. P15HS201 Abhra Paul HSS
122. P15HS202 Varun HSS
123. P15EE201 Rajesh Shukla EE
124. P15EE202 Yogesh Kumar EE
125. P15EE203 Rahul Kumar EE
126. P15VSS201 Aditya Raj VSS
127. P15VSS202 Neeraj Goel VSS
128. P15VSS203 Abhishek Kumar VSS
129. P15ME201 Aniket Dilip Monde ME
130. P15ME202 Vibhuti Bhushan Pandey ME
131. P15ME203 Ankit Agarwal ME
132. P16CY001 Gaurav Bahuguna CY
133. P16CY002 Urgunde Ajay Bhimashankar CY
134. P16CS002 Pratibha Choudhary CSE
135. P16CS003 Shreya Goyal CSE
136. P16EE001 Amit Kumar Gangwar EE
137. P16EE002 Gaurav Jajoo EE
138. P16HS002 Prakash Prajapat HSS
139. P16MA001 Prashant Kumar MA
140. P16ME001 Amit Shrivastava ME
141. P16ME002 Sachin Kalia ME
142. P16ME003 Satish ME
143. P16ME004 Vishwa Deepak Kumar ME
144. P16ME005 Waris Nawaz Khan ME
145. P16PH001 Rajneesh Chaurasiya PH
146. P16PH002 Ram Milan Sahani PH
147. P16VSS001 Deepak VSS
148. P16VSS002 Naveen Kumar Mangal VSS
149. P16VSS003 Vivek Raghuwanshi VSS
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl. No. Roll No Name Department
1. M15ME002 Ashok Verma ME
2. M15ME003 Deepak Raina ME
3. M15ME004 Himanshu Gaur ME
4. M15ME006 Narayan Kumar ME
5. M15ME007 Naveen ME
6. M15ME008 Neha Arora ME
7. M15ME009 Sankalp Singh ME
8. M15ME010 Shiv Ram Suthar ME
9. M15ME011 Shravan Singh Rao ME
10. M15ME012 Shubhendu Prashant Singh ME
11. M15ME013 Tushar Lohora ME
12. M15ME014 Vivek Tripathi ME
13. M15EE004 Chandrashekhar Bhardwaj EE
14. M15EE005 Dinesh Jangid EE
15. M15EE007 Itisha Chauhan EE
16. M15EE008 Lobzang Namgail EE
17. M15EE009 Mohit Kachhwaha EE
18. M15EE010 Prakriti Arya EE
19. M15EE011 Priyanka Siddha EE
20. M15EE013 Saurabh Rawal EE
21. M15EE014 Vineet Kumar EE
22. M15EE016 Anil Kumar EE
23. M15EE017 Jitendra Kumar EE
24. M15EE018 Joshi Sonal Sunil EE
Sl. No. Roll No Name Department
1. M16EE001 Aniket Chaturvedi EE
2. M16EE002 Arimardan Singh Chauhan EE
3. M16EE003 Jitendra Rathore EE
4. M16EE006 Shivam Verma EE
5. M16EE008 Vipul Kumar EE
6. M16EE010 Atal Tewari EE
7. M16EE011 Shyam Sundar Maurya EE
8. M16ME001 Kovid Goyal ME
9. M16ME002 Jitendra Kumar ME
10. M16ME003 Pratik V Paliwal ME
11. M16ME004 Vikas Kumar Upadhyay ME
12. M16ME005 Mohammmad Ashhar Tufail ME
13. M16ME006 Sunil ME
14. M16ME007 Oaj Chawla ME
15. M16ME008 Leeladhar Sharma ME
16. M16ME009 Dileep Kumar ME
17. M16ME010 Upendra Yadav ME
18. M16ME011 Manish Kumar Jaiswal ME
19. M16ME012 Sumer Chand Saini ME
20. M16ME013 Rohit Verma ME
Post Graduate Students
M.Tech. Students, Batch 2015
M.Tech. Students, Batch 2016
Annual Report 2016-17

Sl. No. Roll No Name Department
1. M15CY003 Pooja CY
2. M15CY004 Pranay Rajbangshi CY
3. M15CY006 Suman Dhara CY
4. M15CY008 Vikas Kumar CY
5. M15CY009 Vinay Uniyal CY
6. M15PH001 Ashish Kumar PH
7. M15PH002 Bernard Lalroliana PH
8. M15PH005 Nidhin Sathyan PH
9. M15PH007 Rashmi Mehla PH
10. M15PH008 Sanjeeda Bharati Das PH
11. M15PH011 Vikrant Chaudhary PH
12. M15MA001 Aarti Balana MA
13. M15MA004 Bhagya Shree Meena MA
14. M15MA007 Dharmendra Kumar Gurjar MA
Sl. No. Roll No Name Department
1. M16CY001 Aarti CY
2. M16CY002 Ajeetesh Kumar CY
3. M16CY003 Akshay Kumar R CY
4. M16CY004 Chesta CY
5. M16CY005 Mohit Solanki CY
6. M16CY006 Neelam Pal CY
7. M16CY007 Neha Kumari CY
8. M16CY008 Sakshi Bhagat CY
9. M16CY009 Vinod Singh Adhikary CY
10. M16CY010 Vipin Kamboj CY
11. M16CY011 Rachna Sharma CY
12. M16PH002 Radha Raman PH
13. M16PH003 Ruchi Sharma PH
14. M16PH004 Sagar Satish Jha PH
15. M16PH005 Shalu Yadav PH
16. M16PH006 Shilpi Bose PH
17. M16MA001 Amit Punia MA
18. M16MA002 Ankush MA
19. M16MA003 Chandni Arora MA
20. M16MA004 Kanchan MA
21. M16MA005 Kshitij Kumar Pandey MA
22. M16MA006 Neeraj MA
23. M16MA007 Shresth Kumar MA
24. M16MA008 Sushmita Chandel MA
25. M16MA009 Vidya Sagar MA
M.Sc. Students, Batch 2015
M.Sc. Students, Batch 2016
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl. No. Roll No Name Department
1. UG201310001 Aakash Asija CSE
2. UG201310002 Aayush Sharda CSE
3. UG201310003 Abhay Kumar Singh CSE
4. UG201310004 Aman CSE
5. UG201310005 Amit Jain CSE
6. UG201310006 Anjali Malav CSE
7. UG201310007 Archit Agrawal CSE
8. UG201310008 Arnav Chopra CSE
9. UG201310009 Arnav Jindal CSE
10. UG201310010 Avan Jayendra Rathod CSE
11. UG201310011 Bharti CSE
12. UG201310012 Bharti Arya CSE
13. UG201310013 Dishant Goyal CSE
14. UG201310015 Kartik Singh CSE
15. UG201310016 Komanduri Sai Raghava CSE
16. UG201310017 Kushagra Surana CSE
17. UG201310019 Makarand Milind Gomashe CSE
18. UG201310020 Muttineni Navya CSE
19. UG201310021 Nikhil Jeevansingh Taji CSE
20. UG201310022 Nithin V. CSE
21. UG201310023 Piyush Yadav CSE
22. UG201310024 Priyank Arya CSE
23. UG201310025 Rajkumar Meena CSE
24. UG201310026 Ramkesh Meena CSE
25. UG201310027 Ravi Prakash Gupta CSE
26. UG201310028 Ravindra Kumar Saini CSE
27. UG201310029 Riteek Srivastav CSE
28. UG201310030 Shiv Bhagwan CSE
29. UG201310031 Shiv Kumar Sen CSE
30. UG201310032 Shiv Mohan CSE
31. UG201310033 Shubham Saxena CSE
32. UG201310035 Sourav Khoso CSE
33. UG201310036 Suresh Gehlot CSE
34. UG201310037 Tapan Bhatnagar CSE
35. UG201310038 Upendra Singh Chauhan CSE
36. UG201310039 Vaghela Rajan Arvindkumar CSE
37. UG201310040 Vaibhav Paliwal CSE
38. UG201310041 Vivek Lata CSE
Undergraduate Students
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2013
Annual Report 2016-17

Sl. No. Roll No Name Department
39. UG201310042 Kaushtubh Kumar CSE
40. UG201310043 Kshitij Sandeep Minocha CSE
41. UG201311001 Abhishek Agrawal EE
42. UG201311002 Abhishek Jaju EE
43. UG201311003 Abhishek Kumar Yadav EE
44. UG201311004 Amit Kumar EE
45. UG201311005 Anirudh Singh Shaktawat EE
46. UG201311006 Ankit Garg EE
47. UG201311007 Anshul Agarwal EE
48. UG201311008 Anshul Yadav EE
49. UG201311009 Ashok Kumar EE
50. UG201311010 Ashutosh Gupta EE
51. UG201311011 Ashutosh Vaishnav EE
52. UG201311012 Bhabhuta Ram EE
53. UG201311013 Dinesh Kumar Danwa EE
54. UG201311014 Dipender Singh Ridmalot EE
55. UG201311015 Ekant Kumar EE
56. UG201311016 Gurpinder Singh EE
57. UG201311017 Hede Tejan Rohit EE
58. UG201311018 Hemant Meena EE
59. UG201311019 Kanika Mahajan EE
60. UG201311020 Khushbu Saxena EE
61. UG201311022 Mohit Gupta EE
62. UG201311023 Niranjan Sanodia EE
63. UG201311024 Paduru Kandarpa Sai EE
64. UG201311025 Prakhar Gupta EE
65. UG201311026 Rahul Jain EE
66. UG201311027 Rajendra Kumar Yadav EE
67. UG201311028 Ramdev Bhichar EE
68. UG201311029 Rishikesh Meena EE
69. UG201311030 Shraddha Garg EE
70. UG201311031 Siddhant Jain EE
71. UG201311032 Sisodiya Vrushali EE
72. UG201311033 Sneha Gupta EE
73. UG201311034 Sumit Pegwal EE
74. UG201311035 Sushant Gautam EE
75. UG201311036 Syed Afshan Ali EE
76. UG201311037 Talloju Jawahar EE
77. UG201311038 Tiloka Ram EE
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl. No. Roll No Name Department
78. UG201311039 V. Ashwin EE
79. UG201311040 Vaibhav Sharma EE
80. UG201312001 Aditya Saxena ME
81. UG201312002 Akhil Mehta ME
82. UG201312003 Amit Kumar ME
83. UG201312004 Ankit Raipuria ME
84. UG201312005 Arpit Kumar Gahlot ME
85. UG201312006 Ayush Raina ME
86. UG201312007 Balveer Danga ME
87. UG201312008 Bhaskarjyoti Barman ME
88. UG201312009 Dheeraj Kumar Sisodiya ME
89. UG201312010 Dron Airon ME
90. UG201312011 Hardik Jain ME
91. UG201312012 Harsh Vardhan Shrivastava ME
92. UG201312013 Himanshu Agrawal ME
93. UG201312014 Himanshu Kumar Singh ME
94. UG201312015 Himanshu Sharma ME
95. UG201312016 K. Lakshmi Phalguni ME
96. UG201312017 Kanuganti Vamshi ME
97. UG201312018 Lakshaya Bhatt ME
98. UG201312019 Lakshman Kumar ME
99. UG201312020 Lokesh Swami ME
100. UG201312021 Manish Rajendra Jadhav ME
101. UG201312022 Mayank Gupta ME
102. UG201312023 Mohammed Firoz ME
103. UG201312024 Mohit Agarwal ME
104. UG201312025 Patel Harsh Bhupendrabhai ME
105. UG201312026 Pradyuman Meena ME
106. UG201312027 Prakhar Srivastava ME
107. UG201312028 Pushpendra Dhurwe ME
108. UG201312029 Pushpendra Mishra ME
109. UG201312030 Rohan Kumar ME
110. UG201312031 Rohit Singh ME
111. UG201312032 Sachin ME
112. UG201312033 Shubham Shaurya ME
113. UG201312034 Subham Teji ME
114. UG201312035 Vaghela Nirav Jitendrakumar ME
115. UG201312036 Vaibhav Jain ME
116. UG201312037 Vikas Kumar ME
Annual Report 2016-17

Sl. No. Roll No Name Department
117. UG201312038 Vikrant Arora ME
118. UG201312039 Viraat Srivastava ME
119. UG201313002 Aman Ajmera SS
120. UG201313003 Anirudh Vyas SS
121. UG201313004 Arvind Saini SS
122. UG201313005 Ayush Bhaskar SS
123. UG201313006 Darapaneni Chandana SS
124. UG201313007 Deepika Jalli SS
125. UG201313008 Deepshi Garg SS
126. UG201313010 Gaikwad Sangram Dasharath SS
127. UG201313011 Gourav Singh SS
128. UG201313013 Jayant Carpenter SS
129. UG201313014 Jayant V. Khapre SS
130. UG201313015 Joshi Achyut Sanjay SS
131. UG201313016 Lingala Prasantha Kumar SS
132. UG201313017 Mandeep SS
133. UG201313018 Naresh Kumar Prajapati SS
134. UG201313019 P Manisha SS
135. UG201313020 Pankaj Panwar SS
136. UG201313021 Pankaj Yadav SS
137. UG201313023 Perla Sukesh SS
138. UG201313024 Pinkesh Kumar SS
139. UG201313025 Prabhash Jain SS
140. UG201313026 Prakhar Mathur SS
141. UG201313027 Pramod Kumar SS
142. UG201313028 Prashant Kumar SS
143. UG201313029 Pulavarthy Anirudh SS
144. UG201313030 Rohil Surana SS
145. UG201313031 Rohit Kumar SS
146. UG201313033 Saroj Prasad Chhatoi SS
147. UG201313034 Sheela Meena SS
148. UG201313035 Shipra Jain SS
149. UG201313036 Shubham Singh SS
150. UG201313037 Tarun Devireddy SS
151. UG201313038 Vishal Kumar SS
152. UG201314001 Abhishek Thombre BISS
153. UG201314002 Aditya Choudhary BISS
154. UG201314003 Ajay Kumar Kumawat BISS
155. UG201314004 Arnav Mishra BISS
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl. No. Roll No Name Department
156. UG201314005 Chandresh Kumar BISS
157. UG201314006 Dhanajit Brahma BISS
158. UG201314007 Himanshu Sikaria BISS
159. UG201314008 Jalaj Sharma BISS
160. UG201314011 Kuldeep Meena BISS
161. UG201314012 Nisha Kumari BISS
162. UG201314013 Pranjal Singh BISS
163. UG201314014 Rakesh Yadav BISS
164. UG201314015 Sharath Challapalli BISS
165. UG201314017 Shrey Maheshwari BISS
166. UG201314018 Ujjwal Anand BISS
Sl. No. Roll No Name Department
1. B14CS001 Abhimanyu Singh Gaur CSE
2. B14CS002 Abhinav Rai CSE
3. B14CS003 Ajeet Goyal CSE
4. B14CS004 Ajeet Ujjwal CSE
5. B14CS005 Ankita Muzalda CSE
7. B14CS007 Anurag Sanyal CSE
8. B14CS008 Archil Kumar Srivastava CSE
9. B14CS009 Ashish Sahu CSE
10. B14CS010 Ayush Agrawal CSE
11. B14CS011 B Sree Siddharth CSE
12. B14CS012 Bharat Singh CSE
13. B14CS013 Chaudhari Akshay Gajanan CSE
14. B14CS014 Daval Pargal CSE
15. B14CS015 Dhruv Sharma CSE
16. B14CS016 Edula Hari Hara Reddy CSE
17. B14CS017 Ganesh Bhimrao Patil CSE
18. B14CS018 Garimella Sravan CSE
19. B14CS019 Gaurav Kamal CSE
20. B14CS020 Gutapu Raj Kumar CSE
21. B14CS021 Hitesh Hingorani CSE
22. B14CS022 Kommuru Vinay Kumar CSE
23. B14CS023 Mahendra Meena CSE
24. B14CS024 Manish Goyal CSE
25. B14CS025 Pranav Arora CSE
26. B14CS026 Pushpinder CSE
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2014
Annual Report 2016-17

Sl. No. Roll No Name Department
27. B14CS027 Rinku Kumar Meena CSE
28. B14CS028 Rishabh Shukla CSE
29. B14CS029 Robin Gaur CSE
30. B14CS030 Rohit Paliwal CSE
31. B14CS031 Sahil Dhiman CSE
32. B14CS032 Sandeep Charan CSE
33. B14CS033 Rohan Govind Saraf CSE
34. B14CS034 Saurav Suman CSE
35. B14CS035 Shubham Jain CSE
36. B14CS036 Snehal Azad CSE
37. B14CS037 Sunil Choudhary CSE
38. B14CS039 Varun Kumar CSE
39. B14CS040 Vijay Kumar Paliwal CSE
40. B14CS041 Angad Singh Sabherwal CSE
41. B14CS042 Mahak Jain CSE
42. B14CS043 Mohit Mehta CSE
43. B14EE001 Abhishek Mandwale EE
44. B14EE002 Abhishek Meena EE
45. B14EE003 Akshat Shrivastava EE
46. B14EE004 Anand Kumar EE
47. B14EE005 Ankush Garg EE
48. B14EE006 Anusha Gupta EE
49. B14EE007 Archit Sharma EE
50. B14EE009 Dara Shanmukha Sai Sanjay Gupta EE
51. B14EE010 Deepanshu Bhojak EE
52. B14EE011 Guntuku Deepak EE
53. B14EE012 Himanshu Verma EE
54. B14EE013 Jaiswal Ronak Nilesh EE
55. B14EE014 Jay Bhavin Sheth EE
56. B14EE015 Kanika Jakhar EE
57. B14EE016 Kaviti Sarath Kalyan EE
58. B14EE017 Kumari Saumya EE
59. B14EE021 Naveen Kumar Chittoriya EE
60. B14EE022 Parmar Sunny Mukeshkumar EE
61. B14EE023 Piyush Sharma EE
62. B14EE024 Rahul Negi EE
63. B14EE025 Ramesh Kumar EE
64. B14EE026 Ravindra Parihar EE
65. B14EE027 Rishabh Bhardwaj EE
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl. No. Roll No Name Department
66. B14EE028 Ritu Singh EE
67. B14EE029 Sachin Mandowara EE
68. B14EE030 Shah Neelkumar Sureshkumar EE
69. B14EE031 Shivani Meena EE
70. B14EE032 Shounak Kulkarni EE
71. B14EE033 Sudhir Pratap Yadav EE
72. B14EE034 Thara Giriraj Prasad EE
73. B14EE035 Tripti Meena EE
74. B14EE036 Vamsi Prudhvi Chintaguntala EE
75. B14EE037 Vanam Bhanu Sai Simha EE
76. B14EE038 Vidit Jain EE
77. B14EE039 Vivek EE
78. B14EE040 Yasharth Sahu EE
79. B14ME001 Abhishek Sharma ME
80. B14ME003 Akhil Bindal ME
81. B14ME004 Akshay Vinay Bapat ME
83. B14ME006 Anandhu Suresh ME
84. B14ME007 Bandi Sai Mukesh ME
85. B14ME008 Boghara Pruthvi Rameshbhai ME
86. B14ME010 Jerry Mathew Oommen ME
87. B14ME011 Kartik Venkata Ramachandruni ME
88. B14ME012 Katakam Harsha Sai Manohar ME
89. B14ME013 Kuldeep Meena ME
90. B14ME014 Madhvendra Tiwari ME
91. B14ME015 Manoj Malviya ME
92. B14ME016 Mohammad Sharey ME
93. B14ME017 Mohit Vijay ME
94. B14ME019 Parella Ravi Teja ME
95. B14ME021 Pawan Kumar ME
96. B14ME022 Pothula Krishna Teja ME
97. B14ME023 Rachit ME
98. B14ME024 Rahul Chanania ME
99. B14ME025 Rajendra Manda ME
100. B14ME026 Rishabh Badodia ME
101. B14ME027 Santhoju Shiva ME
102. B14ME028 Santhosh M ME
103. B14ME030 Shinde Shubham Bhaskar ME
104. B14ME031 Shivam Jaiswal ME
Annual Report 2016-17

Sl. No. Roll No Name Department
105. B14ME032 Shivam Srivastava ME
106. B14ME034 Shubham Kaushal ME
107. B14ME035 Sutariya Monark ME
108. B14ME036 Suyog Bodhankar ME
109. B14ME037 Udit Singh Parihar ME
110. B14ME038 Uma Shankar Sharma ME
111. B14ME039 Vanditi Mathur ME
112. B14ME040 Vedant Bhuyar ME
113. B14SS003 B Sai Chaitanya SS
114. B14SS006 Devanshu Bhavin Kathrecha SS
115. B14SS007 K. Tejas Reddy SS
116. B14SS008 Katragadda Karthik SS
117. B14SS009 Mansi Mittal SS
118. B14SS011 Pranali Pawar SS
119. B14SS013 Raj Prajapat SS
120. B14SS017 Shreyansh Chhajer SS
121. B14SS018 Tejas Gattani SS
122. B14SS019 Vaibhav Baban Ganer SS
123. B14BS005 Dinesh Kumar Maurya BISS
124. B14BS006 Divya Naval BISS
125. B14BS009 Kumar Venkateshwar BISS
126. B14BS011 Mahesh BISS
127. B14BS014 Sahil Bhatia BISS
128. B14BS015 Shubham Talbar BISS
129. B14BS016 Vishal Verma BISS
Sl. No. Roll No Name Department
1. B15CS001 Abhishek Sah CSE
2. B15CS002 Aditya Agrawal CSE
3. B15CS003 Akash Gupta CSE
4. B15CS004 Akshay Agrawal CSE
5. B15CS005 Amitansh Gangwar CSE
6. B15CS006 Amol Thakur CSE
7. B15CS007 Anant Kumar Singh CSE
8. B15CS008 Ankit Kumar CSE
9. B15CS009 Anmol Chhabra CSE
10. B15CS010 Aryaman Singh CSE
11. B15CS011 Ashish Mittal CSE
12. B15CS012 Ashish Yadav CSE
13. B15CS013 Bagannagari Vinay Kumar Reddy CSE
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2015
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl. No. Roll No Name Department
14. B15CS014 Bhamare Nikhil Daryavsing CSE
15. B15CS015 Bhuma Ayyappa Sumanth CSE
16. B15CS016 Deewan Singh CSE
17. B15CS017 Divyansh Aggarwal CSE
18. B15CS018 Harsh Akshit CSE
19. B15CS019 Harshit Singh CSE
20. B15CS020 Indra Kumar Malav CSE
21. B15CS021 Joukani Vinit Pradeep CSE
22. B15CS022 Kansagara Bhargav Dineshbhai CSE
23. B15CS023 Kishan Sharma CSE
24. B15CS024 Kongi Arunsrivardhan CSE
25. B15CS025 Marali Jagadeesh CSE
26. B15CS027 Praveen Kumar T CSE
27. B15CS028 Rajat Babel CSE
28. B15CS029 Rajat Mangla CSE
29. B15CS030 Rajesh Meena CSE
30. B15CS031 Rashi Sahu CSE
31. B15CS032 Rashmi Sahu CSE
32. B15CS033 Rishabh Arun Kanabar CSE
33. B15CS034 Shubham Kumar CSE
34. B15CS035 Shukla Anugrah Harish Kumar CSE
35. B15CS036 Singamsetty Sandeep CSE
36. B15CS037 Sushil Kumar CSE
37. B15CS038 Swapnil Ganesh Athawale CSE
38. B15CS039 Vinayak Singla CSE
39. B15CS040 Vishesh Mistry CSE
40. B15EE003 Akshat Agrawal EE
41. B15EE004 Amitesh Kumar Jigyasu EE
42. B15EE005 Anurag EE
43. B15EE006 Ashish Gambhir EE
44. B15EE007 B. Visveswaraiah EE
45. B15EE008 Bhanwar Singh Choudhary EE
46. B15EE009 Braj Raj Nagar EE
47. B15EE010 Chirayu Parashar EE
48. B15EE011 Dheeraj Dhariwal EE
49. B15EE012 Divyanshu Agarwal EE
50. B15EE013 Gadde Harshavardhan EE
51. B15EE014 Gyandeep Singh EE
52. B15EE015 Inderpreet Singh Chhabra EE
Annual Report 2016-17

Sl. No. Roll No Name Department
53. B15EE016 Jeet Shah EE
54. B15EE017 Karanveer Singh Thakur EE
55. B15EE018 Krunal Sanjay Chirmade EE
56. B15EE019 Kuldeep Verma EE
57. B15EE020 Lalit Kumar Bamanawat EE
58. B15EE021 Milind Singhal EE
59. B15EE022 Nikhil Negi EE
60. B15EE023 Nilesh Kumar Tiwari EE
61. B15EE024 Pradeep Choudhary EE
62. B15EE025 Pranab Kumar EE
63. B15EE026 Rahul Meena EE
64. B15EE028 Ramnarayan Choudhary EE
65. B15EE029 Riya Chaudhary EE
66. B15EE030 Sameer Jalutharia EE
67. B15EE031 Sarthak Desai EE
68. B15EE032 Saurabh Jangir EE
69. B15EE034 Shitendra Kumar Tyagi EE
70. B15EE035 Shreyas Malakarjun Patil EE
71. B15EE036 Shubham Bhargava EE
72. B15EE037 Somender Singh EE
73. B15EE038 Sonu Kumar EE
74. B15EE039 Vadde Keerthi Aishwarya EE
75. B15EE040 Vaibhav Sharma EE
76. B15ME001 Aarush Gupta ME
77. B15ME002 Abhinay Kumar ME
78. B15ME003 Abhishek Meena ME
79. B15ME004 Aditya Raj Malviya ME
80. B15ME006 Alukapally Gnanadeep ME
81. B15ME007 Aniket Janrao ME
82. B15ME008 Ankit Jangir ME
83. B15ME009 Ankit Mangal ME
84. B15ME010 Ashutosh Pathak ME
85. B15ME012 Ayush Upadhyay ME
86. B15ME013 Chandrapratap Singh Raghuvanshi ME
87. B15ME014 Dhagash Desai ME
88. B15ME015 Divyanshu Goyal ME
89. B15ME016 Gandi Rajesh ME
90. B15ME017 Gaurav Meena ME
91. B15ME018 Gourav Jeengar ME
92. B15ME019 Karthik Mohan ME
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl. No. Roll No Name Department
93. B15ME021 Keshetty Sai Surya ME
94. B15ME023 Krishna Goyal ME
95. B15ME024 Meka Lalit Sai Chandra Reddy ME
96. B15ME025 Mukul Bansal ME
97. B15ME026 Nakka Sanket Gangadhar ME
98. B15ME027 Neelansh Kamboj ME
99. B15ME028 Nitish Kumar ME
100. B15ME030 Perisetla Srinivasa Deepak ME
101. B15ME031 Quadri Syed Mujtaba Syed Maqsood ME
102. B15ME032 Ramesh Kumar ME
103. B15ME033 Ritwik Kulkarni ME
104. B15ME034 Saurabh Yadav ME
105. B15ME035 Sharan Saarsar ME
106. B15ME036 Somesh Sharma ME
107. B15ME037 Sunil Kumar Sakhnia ME
108. B15ME038 Vartha Divyesh Yashvant ME
109. B15ME039 Vineet Singh Chauhan ME
110. B15ME040 Vivek Kumar Singh ME
111. B15BS001 Ankur Kamboj ME
112. B15ME005 Akash Gupta ME
Sl. No. Roll No Name Department
1. B16CS001 Abhinav Suthar CSE
2. B16CS002 Ajat Prabha CSE
3. B16CS003 Akshay Malav CSE
4. B16CS004 Ashutosh Kumar Jatav CSE
5. B16CS005 Ashutosh Yadav CSE
6. B16CS006 Chetan Prakash Meena CSE
7. B16CS007 Chitraksh Sadayat CSE
8. B16CS008 Himanshu Dhankhar CSE
9. B16CS009 Katta Rajasekhar CSE
10. B16CS010 Kavish Gambhir CSE
11. B16CS011 Kuldeep Singh Jangir CSE
12. B16CS012 Lakshya Garg CSE
13. B16CS013 Lovish Singla CSE
14. B16CS014 Machabathuni Vijay Siddharth CSE
15. B16CS015 Manvendra Singh Kushwah CSE
16. B16CS016 Mehta Meet CSE
17. B16CS017 Nagalgaonkar Vinay Ramkishan CSE
18. B16CS018 Nagelli Balamallesh CSE
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2016
Annual Report 2016-17

Sl. No. Roll No Name Department
19. B16CS019 Naramala Mourya Mithra CSE
20. B16CS020 Nikhil Srivastava CSE
21. B16CS021 Nikunj Kumar Labana CSE
22. B16CS022 Nirne Shivam Chandrakant CSE
23. B16CS023 Parate Aniket Kishor CSE
24. B16CS024 Paridhi Gehlot CSE
25. B16CS025 Patel Shreya Hasmukh CSE
26. B16CS026 Qazi Sajid Azam CSE
27. B16CS027 Rahul Jindal CSE
28. B16CS028 Sai Kishore Kesaram CSE
29. B16CS029 Sairipally Sai Surya CSE
30. B16CS030 Saksham Gupta CSE
31. B16CS031 Sanchit Taliyan CSE
32. B16CS032 Sarvesh Kumar CSE
33. B16CS033 Satya Bhavsar CSE
34. B16CS034 Shah Anurag CSE
35. B16CS035 Shashank Mohabia CSE
36. B16CS036 Sohail Khan CSE
37. B16CS037 Uneet Meena CSE
38. B16CS038 Vishakh S CSE
39. B16CS039 Vivek Dwivedi CSE
40. B16CS040 Zaid Khan CSE
41. B16CS041 Chinmay Garg CSE
42. B16CS042 Saksham Sanjay Banga CSE
43. B16EE001 Abhinav Joshi EE
44. B16EE002 Adeesh Jain EE
45. B16EE003 Adit Raj Gautam EE
46. B16EE004 Akhil Goel EE
47. B16EE005 Akhil Kumar Singh EE
48. B16EE006 Anchal Singh EE
49. B16EE007 Ashutosh Pandey EE
50. B16EE008 Ayush Mukund Gupta EE
51. B16EE010 Dharmesh Gupta EE
52. B16EE011 Hemendra Kumar Singh EE
53. B16EE012 Hitesh Kumar EE
54. B16EE013 Jitendra Jain EE
55. B16EE014 Jitendra Meena EE
56. B16EE015 Kanak Jain EE
57. B16EE016 Kapil EE
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl. No. Roll No Name Department
58. B16EE017 Karan Kumar EE
59. B16EE018 Kasar Rajat Sanjay EE
60. B16EE019 Kritika Chandan EE
61. B16EE021 Kshitij Kumar EE
62. B16EE022 Manu Sheoran EE
63. B16EE023 Mukesh Kumar Das EE
64. B16EE024 Nomraj Meena EE
65. B16EE025 Patil Rushabh Hemant EE
66. B16EE026 Pravendra S Khinchi EE
67. B16EE027 Prayrika Sharma EE
68. B16EE028 Rakshith Ramakanth Malapalli EE
69. B16EE029 Rohit Kewat EE
70. B16EE031 Shreshth Saini EE
71. B16EE032 Shruti Sachan EE
72. B16EE033 Shubham Lodwal EE
73. B16EE034 Shuchi Jain EE
74. B16EE035 Sourabh Kumar Meena EE
75. B16EE036 Srijan Agarwal EE
76. B16EE037 Srishti Chauhan EE
77. B16EE038 Sumanth U EE
78. B16EE039 Ujjwala Anantheswaran EE
79. B16EE040 Yash Kumar Chouhan EE
80. B16EE041 Abhay Kumar EE
81. B16EE042 Abhinav Rishikesh EE
82. B16EE043 Divij Gupta EE
83. B16ME001 Aaditya Raj ME
84. B16ME002 Abhishek Bhaskar ME
86. B16ME004 Badal Kumar ME
87. B16ME005 Bhaskar Vijay ME
88. B16ME007 Deependra Singh Bhati ME
89. B16ME009 Gautam Jain ME
90. B16ME010 Gulab Chand Meena ME
91. B16ME011 Harshul Sharma ME
92. B16ME012 Hemant Kumar ME
93. B16ME013 Jitendra Kumar Meena ME
94. B16ME014 Joshi Parth Jayeshbhai ME
95. B16ME015 Mukesh Sharma ME
96. B16ME016 Nale Ruturaj Shivaji ME
Annual Report 2016-17

Sl. No. Roll No Name Department
97. B16ME017 Nitesh Rai ME
98. B16ME018 Parvesh ME
99. B16ME019 Poojan Gajjar ME
100. B16ME020 Pradeep Panchal ME
101. B16ME021 Praduman Gupta ME
102. B16ME022 Pranav Maheshwari ME
103. B16ME023 Preshit Ameta ME
104. B16ME024 Pushpendra Choudhary ME
105. B16ME025 Raghavendra Meena ME
106. B16ME026 Raj Dewangan ME
107. B16ME027 Raveen ME
108. B16ME028 Sachin Beejawat ME
109. B16ME029 Sachin Bundela ME
110. B16ME030 Sakshi Jeengar ME
111. B16ME031 Shambhu Singh ME
112. B16ME032 Shiv Kumar Mudgal ME
113. B16ME033 Shreenath Nathany ME
114. B16ME034 Shubham Doharey ME
115. B16ME035 Subham Kant Das ME
116. B16ME036 Sudhir Kumar Kushwaha ME
117. B16ME037 Suresh ME
118. B16ME038 Upendra Sengar ME
119. B16ME039 Vinod Kumar Saini ME
120. B16ME040 Vishal Jain ME
121. B16ME041 Peela Subash Chandra Bose ME
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Financial Position
The Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) has released a sum of Rs. 25000.10 Lakhs as Grant-in-Aid 
under Normal Plan Head and Rs. 1938.07 Lakh as opening balance as on 01-04-2016. The internal income of the Institute 
was Rs. 1021.08 Lakh. The total Plan expenditure during the year was Rs. 25502.91 Lakh (Recurring Rs. 3500.68 Lakh and 
Non-Recurring Rs. 22002.23 Lakh).
Annual Report 2016-17

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH 65, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur 342037 
http://www.iitj.ac.in
Annual Report 2016-17
Image Credits: Vidya Sarveswaran