SOURCE_PDF: 444e707bb45e_Non-Teaching-Staff-Members-Syllabus-IITJ-O_E-II_-2024-25-Non-Academic-Staff-57-63877992.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Syllabus for the post of SENIOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANT (Physics)
(A) WRITTEN TEST 
 
(A) Electronics: 
Diodes, Transistors, Differential amplifiers and Operational Amplifiers Linear Op-Amp Circuit 
Applications, Oscillators, Digital Principle and Digital Logic, Data Processing Circuit, JFET, 
transconductance, JFET amplifiers, JFET switch, biasing in Ohmic region and active region, depletion mode 
MOSFET, enhancement mode MOSFET, active filters, ideal responses, approximate responses, passive 
filters, first order stages. 
 
(B) Condensed Matter Physics: 
Crystal structure, Symmetry, Unit Cell, Miller indices, Reciprocal Lattice, Brillouin Zone, X- ray diffraction, 
Optical and dielectric properties of materials, Resistivity, Hall Measurement, Magnetic measurements, 
Electron heat capacity and conductivity, Energy bands, Direct and indirect band gap semiconductor, 
working principle of solar cell, photodetectors and LEDs, Types of magnetism, domains and hysteresis, 
magnetic susceptibility. 
 
(C) Modern Physics: 
Failure of classical physics, UV catastrophe, Radiation physics, black body radiation, basic quantum 
physics, Rutherford model, alpha particle scattering, Bohr atom model, Bohr's interpretation of H atom, 
Wave-particle duality, Schrödinger equation (time-dependent and time-independent). Eigenvalue 
problems, Quantum Tunneling, Wave-function, Commutators and Heisenberg uncertainty principle, 
Concepts of special theory of relativity, Properties of nucleus: charge, spin, magnetic moment; Radioactive 
decay: Alpha decay, beta decay and neutrino hypothesis, Nuclear models: Liquid drop model, Semi-
empirical mass formula, Shell model; Nuclear force: deuteron problem, spin dependence of nuclear force, 
nuclear potential; classification of elementary particles, mesons and baryons, conservation laws, particle 
accelerators and detectors. 
 
(D) Optics: 
Reflection, Refraction, Fermat principle, focal plane, Image formation and magnification, F- number, Depth 
of the focus and depth of the field, aberrations, Snell’s law, Polarization, collimation, optical components 
and their geometry effect on ray propagation. Basics of Interference. 
 
(E) Classical Mechanics: 
Newton’s law of motion, Central force, motion under inverse square law of force, Linear and angular 
momentum, Two-body problem, Gravitational potential; Constraints and their classification, Principle of 
least action, D’alembert’s principle, Lagrange’s equations of motion, Generalized force, Application of 
Lagrangian formulation; Basic principles of special relativity, The Lorentz transformation, Length 
contraction, Time dilation. 
 
(F) Electromagnetism: 
Coulomb’s law, Electric field, Superposition principle, electrostatic potential, Electric flux, Gauss’s law, 
Poisson’s and Laplace’s equation, Electric fields in matter, dielectrics, induced dipoles, polarization, bound 
charges, Lorentz Force law, Biot-Savart law, Ampère’s law, Magnetic fields in matter, types of magnetism, 
Electromagnetic induction, Maxwell’s equations.

(G) Thermodynamics and Statistical Physics : 
Laws of thermodynamics, thermodynamic potentials, Chemical potential, micro- and macro- states, 
Entropy - Change in entropy in reversible and irreversible processes, Entropy of ideal gas, Temperature- 
entropy diagram, entropy and second law of thermodynamics. Maxwell's Thermodynamics relations. 
Clausius - Clapeyron equation, Phase diagram, first order phase transition, Free energy and its connection 
with thermodynamic quantities, Ideal Bose and Fermi gases, Principle of detailed balance, Blackbody 
radiation and Planck's distribution law. 
 
(H) Mathematical Physics: 
Vector Calculus Vector differentiation, Gradient, divergence and curl, Solenoidal and irrotational vector 
point functions. Vector integration, Line, surface and volume integration, Gauss theorem and Stokes 
theorem (statements) Physical interpretation. Matrices inverse of matrices, adjoint matrices (complex 
conjugate transpose) orthogonal, symmetric, skew symmetric, Hermitian and skew Hermitian matrices, 
elementary transformations of a matrix. 
 
(B) SKILL TEST 
 
Hands-on based on the following experiments (Tentative) : 
1. Traveling Microscope 
2. Multimeter (Oscilloscope & Circuit Testing) 
3. e/m Ratio 
4. Hall Effect 
5. Newton’s Ring 
6. Fresnel Biprism 
7. Prism Spectrometer 
8. Moment of Inertia based experiments