SOURCE_PDF: 4453a8714585_IIT-Jodhpur-Ph.D.-Admission-Rolling-Basis-639068497567452885.pdf

Sections Details
Section A
(Academic Units
Offering Ph.D.
Program) Departments
1. Department of Bioscience and Bioengineering
2. Department of Chemistry
3. Department of Chemical Engineering
4. Department of Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
5. Department of Computer Science and Engineering
6. Department of Electrical Engineering
7. Department of Mathematics
8. Department of Mechanical Engineering
9. Department of Materials Engineering
10. Department of Physics
Schools
1. School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science
2. School of Liberal Arts
3. School of Management and Entrepreneurship
4. School of Design
Centers
1. Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development
2. Center for Mathematical and Computational Economics
3. Center for Internet of Things (IoT) & Applications
4. Center for Education Technology
5. Rishabh Center for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy
6. Center for Technology Foresight and Policy
Inter-Disciplinary Research Divisions (IDRDs)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Office of Academic Affairs (Admissions)
NH 65, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur 342030, India
IIT Jodhpur – Ph.D. Admission (Rolling Basis)
IIT Jodhpur invites applications for admission to Ph.D. program in the specific disciplines and 
interdisciplinary areas.
The aim of the Ph.D. Program is to develop graduates having good knowledge and research 
training in classical and emerging areas. IIT Jodhpur hosts Ph.D. programs in areas of 
Engineering, Technology, Sciences, Liberal Arts, Design, Management and Entrepreneurship. 
 
The Academic Units offering the Ph.D. program, Minimum Eligibility Criteria, Admission Categories, 
Financial Assistance, Application Procedure, Selection Process, and other details are provided in the 
Sections below.

Section B
Minimum Eligibility
Criteria
(The Selection
Committee may
prescribe
requirements over
and above these.) The applicant must have a master’s degree in Engineering, Sciences,
Pharmacy, Agricultural Science, Humanities, Social Sciences,
Management, Design, Architecture, or Equivalent with at least 60%
marks or at least 6.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/EWS/OBC (55% for
SC/ST/PD),
OR
The applicant must have MBBS with MD/MS, BVSc with MVSc, BDS with
MDS, BPTh with MPTh, BOTh with MOTh, or equivalent with at least
60% marks or at least 6.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/EWS/OBC (55% for
SC/ST/PD) in bachelor’s degree,
OR
The applicant must have a Bachelor’s Degree of minimum four-year
duration in Engineering or Science or Medicine or Pharmacy or
Agricultural Science or Veterinary Science or Design or Architecture, or
equivalent with at least 70% marks or at least 7.0/10 CPI or CGPA for
GEN/EWS/OBC (65% for SC/ST/PD).
Section C
(Admission
Categories) A. Full-time Regular with Fellowship: On campus students, who can
register for up to permissible full credits per semester. A Full-time student
must also satisfy the financial assistance criterion as prescribed in Section
D, in addition to the Minimum eligibility criterion mentioned in Section B.
Candidates seeking admission in Full-time Regular with Fellowship category
shall not be a registered student in any other academic program in India or
abroad, and shall not be a full-time or part-time employee of any
organization in India or abroad.
B. Full-time Sponsored: On campus students who can register for up to
permissible full credits per semester. The candidate must be sponsored by
his/her employer only. There is no provision for self-sponsored category.
C. Part-time: A part-time student is a working professional who, while
employed, attends regular classes as per the schedule of the Institute. The
student must be employed in the neighbourhood of IIT Jodhpur. The student
must produce an NOC from the employer for pursuing the program at IIT
Jodhpur. The student can register for only a limited number of credits
compared to a full-time regular student. The student registered under the
Part-time category must attend classes in the Physical mode. The

Section D
(Financial
Assistance) Eligibility Criteria for Financial Assistance from the Institute for Full-time
Regular with Fellowship are as follows:
● A candidate having B.Tech./B.S. (four-year program)/Master’s
degree with GATE/NET(JRF)/NBHM/CEED (or equivalent) can
have financial assistance as per MoE norms.
● The requirement of GATE is exempted for an applicant with
M.Tech. / M.E. degree.
● The requirements of GATE is waived off for candidates with
Bachelor’s degree in Engineering from CFTIs having CGPA/CPI more
than 8 on 10 point scale. The exemption will be in line with MoE
Regulations, which may be amended from time to time.
● For the School of Management and Entrepreneurship, the
following options may be considered for financial assistance in
lieu of the requirements stated above
-CAT Score of 80 percentile or more/ GRE or GMAT Score of 80
percentile or more/Full-time post-graduate degree of two
years or more from an Institute of National Importance (INI)
with 70 % marks or equivalent

Section E
Other Incentives ● Admitted students under various categories may be provided with
institute hostel accommodation, subject to availability.
● Full-time Regular Ph.D. students may be granted partial financial
support, in deserving cases, for attending and presenting a research
paper in National and International Conferences of repute once
during the program, as per the Institute norms.
Section F
(Application
Procedure) A. Read the advertisement carefully, and check your eligibility before filling
out the form. This is a rolling advertisement, and this online link remains
active throughout the year.
B. Indian students, please apply online on the link below:-
https://erponline.iitj.ac.in/Admission/index?admiss_ch=56
C. Foreign National/INRA students, please apply online on the below link
https://erponline.iitj.ac.in/Admission/index?admiss_ch=68
D. Application Fee (Non-Refundable) for each program is Rs. 300/- for GEN,
EWS, OBC, INRA, and Foreign Nationals; Rs. 150/- for SC, ST, and PD
categories.
E. Applications are processed twice a year as per the below closing dates:
- Semester I: Apply by 20th April (Every year)
- Semester II: Apply by 20th October (Every year)
F. Each candidate has to ensure that the correct details are filled out and
submitted in the Application Form. Candidates are requested to select
the applicable admission category. It may be noted that there is no
provision to edit the Application Form in the ERP Portal of the Institute
after the final submission of the Application Form. Application Form with
incomplete/incorrect details will be outrightly rejected.
G. Detailed information about the research areas of faculty members in
the various Academic Units (Section A) can be found on the
Institute's website at www.iitj.ac.in. The applicants are strongly
encouraged to go through the profiles of faculty members and to get
familiar with their specializations and research interests.
Section G
(Selection Process) A. Applicants will be shortlisted for a written test and/or interview based
on the details in submitted Application Form through the Institute ERP.
B. Shortlisted candidates must present a copy of the following documents
during the selection process (written test and/or interview): Signed
Application Form filled on ERP, uploaded educational certificates and
other documents required for the minimum eligibility criteria for a given
admission category, any additional document(s) (Example - Statement
of Purpose) sought by the departments, and valid Scorecards
(GATE/NET (JRF)/CEED/NBHM).
C. The applications of INRA and Foreign National candidates will be
processed by the Office of International Relations of IIT Jodhpur as and
when applications are received or according to any schedule convenient
to the Academic Units. The applications will be scrutinized to make sure

Section H
Reservation Policy ● As per the Government of India norms.
Section I
Documents to Bring
(for
Test/Interview) ● Signed final Application Form
● Copies of all educational and relevant documents in support of
candidature.
● Valid GATE Scorecard/NET(JRF)/NET(Assistant
Professor)/CEED/NBHM or equivalent.
Section J
Academic
Regulations For more details, please refer to the Academic Regulations.
https://iitj.ac.in/office-of-academics/en/academic-regulations
Section K
Contact
Information All communications will be sent only via email:
https://iitj.ac.in/admission-postgraduate-programs/en/contact
Section L
Important Note on
Eligibility and
Admission
Cancellation “IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to immediately cancel the admission of any
candidate at any stage of the admission process or at any stage of the
program, if it is found that the candidate does not fulfill the prescribed
eligibility criteria as per the official advertisement or the candidate has
provided incorrect/incomplete information in the Application Form. The
decision of the Institute in such matters will be final and will be binding on
the candidates. All legal matters shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the
Competent Court and Forum in Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India only."