SOURCE_PDF: 455694e94745_AR2014-15_20_English_.pdf

Annual Report
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Come, join us in the sands of time …

Annual Report
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Old Residency Road, Ratanada
Jodhpur 342011

Contents
From Director’s Desk 
i
Vision & Mission 
ii
Organization 
 
Organizational Structure 
1
Board of Governors 
2
Finance Committee 
3
Senate 
4
Building and Works Committee 
5
Key Functionaries 
6
Departments and Associated Faculty Members 
9
Staff Members 
23
Academics 
 
Academic Programs 
25
Collaborations with Academia 
26
Collaborations with Industry 
28
Research 
 
R & D Projects 
33
Research Achievements 
36
Faculty Publications 
37
Outreach 
43
Institute Events 
 
Second Convocation 
46
Celebration of National Festivals 
47
Ground Breaking Ceremony at Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur 
48
Strengthening IIT Jodhpur Community 
49
Observance of Days of National Importance & Awareness Drives 
51
Initiatives in Establishment and Administration 
52
Facilities 
 
Present Campuses 
53
Permanent Campus 
56
Computer Center 
58
Library 
59
Laboratories 
62
Health Center 
79
Sports Facilities 
80
SC/ST Cell 
80
Student Activities 
 
Students Gymkhana 
81
Student Fests 
87
Student Accolades 
90
Counselling Service 
91
Student Placement Cell 
93
Alumni Relations 
95
Lists of Registered Students 
96
Financial Position 
119

From Director’s Desk…
The Institute is in its formative years. Structural changes are
bound to occur in such a growing Institute. Its principal stakeholders 
are playing the key role of steering these vital transitions. The 
eventual destination is to build an Institute that helps address the 
technology grand challenges of the nation. The current technology 
tracks adopted by the Institute are: Arid Zone Technologies, Critical 
Technologies, 
Healthcare 
Technologies, 
and 
Automotive
Another special path the Institute has embarked on is towards strengthening its
relationship with leading Industries of the nation – Mahindra & Mahindra Limited, Tata 
Motors Limited, L&T Limited, Tata Power Limited, TVS Motor Company Limited, and 
TCS Limited. IIT Jodhpur – Industry association has embarked on redefining the 
Technology Education model at the Bachelors level.
The year has been very active and resulted in significant discussions to better the
Institute through focused vision, structural changes, and streamlining of processes.
C. V. R. Murty

The Institute shall promote technology thought and action, and prepare needed
technical human resources to meet the technology challenges of the nation.
The Institute shall
(1) Create a vibrant technology institute that incubates and promotes learning, research,
invention and eventually innovation; and
(2) Prepare each primary stakeholder towards their dharma, while continuing to adhere
to the core values of the Institute:
(a) Students: Prepare competent Technology Graduates ready to meet Grand
Challenges of India;
(b) Staff Members: Train active functionaries of a process driven professional
(c) Faculty Members: Facilitate builders of an internationally competitive
academic institute; and
(d) Industries: Provide technology innovation as a force to as many industries as
possible for economic value creation
The Institute stands for a set of core values, wherein each member of the IIT Jodhpur
community shall 
(1) Uphold highest levels of human integrity and dignity; 
(2) Not take unfair advantage of any stakeholder of the Institute; 
(3) Work towards building the most admired technology Institute furthering interests of
Students, Industries and Society;
(4) Commit to economic development of India through technological thought and
(5) Be ethical, sincere and open in all transactions; and 
(6) Be continually responsible for upholding utmost confidentiality of all information
and circumstances arising out of any interaction.

ORGANIZATION
Organizational Structure
Under the broad umbrella of IIT Council, IIT Jodhpur functions under the
guidance of the following statutory bodies. 
(1) Board of Governors; 
(2) Finance Committee; 
(3) Senate; and 
(4) Buildings & Works Committee.
Member details of these Statutory Bodies are given in the pages to follow.

BOARD OF GOVERNORS
Chairman
1. Professor Goverdhan Mehta (FNA, FRS)
Department of Organic Chemistry 
University of Hyderabad 
Central University PO 
Hyderabad 500046
2. Director (Ex-officio)
Professor C. V. R. Murty 
Director 
IIT Jodhpur 
Old Residency Road, Ratanada, 
Jodhpur 342011
Member-Nominees of the IIT Council
1. Professor Pankaj Chandra
Former Director 
Indian Institute of Management 
Bangalore 560076
2. Professor N. S. Vyas
Chairman, Technology Mission for Indian Railways 
Ministry of Railways 
Government of India 
New Delhi 110001
3. Mr. Kiran Karnik
Former President, NASSCOM 
S-315 Panchsheel Park 
New Delhi 110017
4. Mr. D. R. Mehta
Founder & Chief Patron 
Bhagwan Mahaveer Viklang Sahayata Samiti 
13A-Gurunanak Path 
Main Malviya Nagar 
Jaipur 302017
State Government Nominee
1. Principal Secretary
Higher & Technical Education
Main Building Secretariat
Government of Rajasthan
Jaipur 302005

FINANCE COMMITTEE
Chairman
1. Professor Goverdhan Mehta, FNA, FRS
Department of Organic Chemistry 
University of Hyderabad 
Central University PO 
Hyderabad 500046
Members
1. Professor C. V. R. Murty
Director 
IIT Jodhpur 
Old Residency Road, Ratanada 
Jodhpur 342011
2. Additional Secretary (Technical Education)
Department of Higher Education 
Ministry of Human Resources and Development 
Government of India 
Shastri Bhawan 
New Delhi 110001
3. Financial Advisor
Department of Higher Education 
Ministry of Human Resources and Development 
Government of India 
Shastri Bhawan 
New Delhi 110001
4. Mr. G. S. Sood
CMD National Scheduled Tribes Finance and Development Corporation 
NBCC Tower 
Plot No. 15 
Bhikaji Cama Place 
New Delhi 110066
5. CA S. S. Bhandari
Director, Non-Executive Director on the Board 
Bank of Baroda 
P-7, Tilak Marg, C-Scheme 
Jaipur 302005
6. Dr. Gaurav Harit
Assistant Professor 
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur 
Jodhpur 342011

SENATE
C. V. R. Murty Chairman
Pratap Bhanu Mehta Member (Nominee of Board of Governors)
H. P. Khincha Member (Nominee of Board of Governors) 
Sanjeev Misra Member (Nominee of Board of Governors)
Members
Coordinator (Faculty)
Coordinator (R&D)
Coordinator (Academics)
Coordinator (Students)
Head, Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Head, Department of Electrical Engineering
Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering
Head, Department of Biology
Head, Department of Chemistry
Head, Department of Mathematics
Head, Department of Physics
Head, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Chairman, Wardens Committee
Chairman, Library Committee
Laboratory In-Charge, Workshop

BUILDINGS AND WORKS COMMITTEE
Chairman
1. Professor C. V. R. Murty
Director 
IIT Jodhpur 
Old Residency Road, Ratanada, 
Jodhpur 342011
Members
1. Ms. Usha Kasana
Chief Architect 
Public Works Department 
Government of Rajasthan 
Jacob Road, Civil Lines 
Jaipur 302006
2. Mr. R. K. Govil
Additional Director General Civil (Retd.), CPWD 
26, Ankur Apartments 
7, I.P. Extension 
Delhi 110092
3. Mr. V. K. Bansal
Chief Engineer Electrical (Retd.), CPWD 
721 Sky Lark Apartment, 
Sector-6, Plot No.35, Dwarka 
New Delhi 110075
4. Dr. B. Ravindra
Associate Professor 
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur 
Jodhpur 342011

Key Functionaries
The Institute has organized its activities through various key functionaries, as
depicted in the organogram below.
Details of various key functionaries of the Institute are as follow.
Director
C. V. R. Murty
Coordinators
Deepakkumar M. Fulwani Faculty
V. Narayanan Research & Development
Atul Kumar Academics
Hari Narayanan V. Students
Rahul Chhibber Laboratories
Rakesh Kumar Sharma Automation
Satyajit Sahu Library
Sushmita Jha Biologically Inspired System Science (Focus Group)
V. V. M. Sarma Chandramouli Centre for System Science (Focus Group)
Heads of the Departments
Venkata Ramana Badarla Computer Science & Engineering
Anil K. Tiwari Electrical Engineering
B. Ravindra Mechanical Engineering
Sushmita Jha Biology
Rakesh Kumar Sharma Chemistry
Kirankumar R. Hiremath Mathematics
Subhashish Banerjee Physics
Vidya Sarveswaran Humanities & Social Sciences

Chairman / Chairperson
Samanwita Pal Council of Wardens
P. Manikandan Student Placement Committee
Anil Kumar Tiwari Medical Services Committee
V. V. M. Sarma Chandramouli Logistics Committee 
V. V. M. Sarma Chandramouli Scholarships and Prizes Committee
Anand Krishnan Plappally Alumni Relations Committee
Monika Sinha Counselling Services Committee
Officers
Gaurav Harit Chief Vigilance Officer
Rahul Chhibber Transparency Officer
Puneet Sharma Hindi Officer
Kirankumar R. Hiremath Green Initiative Officer
Monika Sinha Women Cell Officer
Amardeep Sharma Public Relations Officer
Academic Committee
Coordinator (Academics) Chairman
Members
Head, Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Head, Department of Electrical Engineering
Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering
Head, Department of Biology
Head, Department of Chemistry
Head, Department of Mathematics
Head, Department of Physics
Head, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Convener (Focus Group Biologically Inspired System Science)
Convener (Focus Group System Science)
Liaison Officer (SC/ST Cell)
Student Representatives
Secretary, ARA Society, Students Gymkhana
Three Student Representatives from ARA Society, Students Gymkhana
(one each from B.Tech., M.Tech. and Ph.D. Programs)

This page is intentionally left blank.

Departments and Associated Faculty Members
The Institute has organised its academic activities to be conducted through eight
Departments, and two Focus Groups. They are: 
 
I. Departments:
1. Computer Science & Engineering, 
2. Electrical Engineering, 
3. Mechanical Engineering, 
4. Biology, 
5. Chemistry, 
6. Mathematics, 
7. Physics, and 
8. Humanities & Social Sciences.
II. Focus Groups:
1. Biologically Inspired System Science, and 
2. System Science.
Details of Departments and associated Faculty Members are given in the pages to

Faculty Member Research Areas
DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE & ENGINEERING
The Department offers B.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering) and Ph.D.
Program with specialisation in Computer Science & Engineering. It has some state-of-
the-art laboratory and research facilities. 
 
Following are the Faculty Members associated with the department:
The department also has an Adjunct Faculty Member, Professor Venkatesh
Raman from Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai.

Name Research Areas
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
The Department offers B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering), M.Tech. (Electrical
Engineering) and Ph.D. Program with specialisation in Electrical Engineering. It has 
some state-of-the-art laboratory and research facilities. 
 
The following Faculty Members are associated with the department:

Sandeep Kumar Yadav
Signal Processing, Condition Monitoring, Image Processing, Data 
Compression, Blind Source Separation, Artificial Neural Network
Shree Prakash Tiwari
Microelectronics 
& 
VLSI 
Technology, 
Microfabrication, 
Organic
Electronics, Device Physics and Characterization, New Device Structures
Vivek Dixit
Nanophotonic / Optoelectronic Devices, Semiconductor device physics, 
III-V semiconductors, Plasmonics
The department also has a Scholar-in-Residence, Professor R. K. Shyama Sunder,
who is a Senior Professor and J. C. Bose National Fellow at Tata Institute of 
Fundamental Research, Mumbai.
Kota V. Murali, Chief Technologist, Semiconductor Research and Development
Center, IBM India, Bangalore is associated with the department as an Adjunct Faculty 
Member.

Name Research Areas
DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
The desire to contribute to national and global causes such as the solar mission
and climate change is at the heart of the academic activities carried out within the 
Department of Mechanical Engineering. Several application domains of interest in 
Mechanical Engineering (such as solar energy, automotive technologies and health) 
motivate Students, Staff Members and Faculty Members.
The B.Tech. Program in Mechanical Engineering commenced in 2008, since the
inception of the Institute. Since then three batches have graduated and most of the 
Alumni are pursuing successful careers in the industry. Some of them have chosen to 
pursue higher studies in India, Europe and the United States of America.
During the last six years, several collaborative projects have been initiated with a
number of industries and research laboratories across India (such as Thermax, 
Sunborne, Areva, STEAG, BHEL, IOCL, ONGC, BARC, and NFTDC) to pursue research 
and development in the area of mechanical engineering.
To respond to the diverse needs of students, broad based Bachelors and Masters
Programs in Mechanical Engineering are being designed, with scope to let students 
specialize in interdisciplinary as well as sub-domains of Mechanical Engineering. A 
Doctoral Program is underway in the Department. Currently, about 10 Ph.D. students 
are pursuing research in thermal, design and manufacturing streams of Mechanical 
Engineering. The main objective of the academic programs is to build capacity and 
capability necessary to make the nation competitive in the globalized world. Also, the 
students are being made aware of professional skills, such as seeking patentable 
innovations, taking up technology transfer tasks and active collaboration with industrial 
partners. 
 
The following Faculty Members are associated with the department:

Anand Krishnan Plappally
Water, Water Management and Characterization of Engineered Materials
Barun Pratiher
Dynamics of Machines and Structures, Flexible Robots, MEMS, Rotor 
Dynamics, Nonlinear Oscillations
Kaushalkumar A. Desai
Modeling of Manufacturing Processes, CAD/CAM, CNC Machining, Error 
compensation
Laltu Chandra
Solar thermal sub-systems (open volumetric air receiver, thermal energy 
storage, air-water heat exchanger), Thermal hydraulics, Turbulence 
simulation 
(DNS/LES/HYBRID/RANS) 
& 
model 
development,
Computational Fluid Dynamics.
Prodyut R. Chakraborty
Heat and mass transfer, Latent heat based storage device for high 
temperature applications, Alloy solidification process, Active and passive 
solar cooling systems, Electronic cooling
Rahul Chibber
Welding and joining, Manufacturing and materials processing, Mechanical 
behaviour of materials

Name Research Areas
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY
The Department of Biology is the hub of biological sciences at IIT Jodhpur. The
mission of the Department is to gain excellence in education and research at the national 
and international levels. The Faculty Members at the Department of Biology span a wide 
range of biological disciplines from cellular and molecular neuroscience, biochemistry, 
physiology to environmental biotechnology.
The Department offers B.Tech. (Biologically Inspired System Science) and Ph.D.
Program with specialisation in Biology, and in Biologically Inspired System Science. The 
department offers a wide range of courses from foundational biology to advanced 
concepts in biological sciences from B.Tech. to Ph.D. level courses. With state-of-the-art 
centralized laboratories and research facilities, hands-on learning is emphasized.
Faculty Members and Students at the Department of Biology believe in
collaboration both within and outside the department to enhance research potential and 
productivity. Following are the Faculty Members associated with the department:

Name Research Areas
DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY
Chemistry at IIT Jodhpur is where Chemistry sees Technology. At IIT Jodhpur,
Chemistry embraces a distinctive locus in science and technology collaboration. The 
department is making technological contribution to new materials for energy solutions, 
catalysis and water. Fundamental understanding of chemical dynamics, biological 
phenomena, Nuclear Magnetic Resonance and Quantum Chemistry are growing in 
prominence. The vision of the Department of Chemistry is to strive to be acknowledged 
for excellence in teaching, research, and outreach. The following Faculty Members are 
associated with the department:

Name Research Areas
DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICS
Mathematics, being the basis of many disciplines, is a subject that evolves with
time and creates new theories and models to solve challenging problems of today. Since 
its inception, the department has been taking a leading role in developing new methods 
and models that can be used in diverse areas of computer science, engineering and basic 
sciences. The department has faculty with research interests in the areas of Mathematical 
Physics, 
Scientific 
Computation, 
Numerical 
Analysis, 
Differential 
Equations,
Topological Dynamics, Low Dimensional Chaos, Dynamical Systems, Renormalization 
in Low-dimensional dynamics, Wavelet Analysis, Fractional Transform Theory, Image 
Processing, Financial Risk Analysis, and Categorical Data Analysis.
The department offers at undergraduate and postgraduate levels. It runs a four
year B.Tech. Program in System Science, and a Ph.D. Program with specialization in 
different areas of Mathematics. Following are the Faculty Members associated with the 
department:

I. Venkat Appala Raju
Financial Mathematics, Insurance Models
Puneet Sharma
Topological Dynamics, Low Dimensional Chaos
V. V. M. S. Chandramouli
Smooth Dynamical Systems, Renormalization of Unimodal maps and 
Henon-like maps
Vivek Vijay
Financial Risk Analysis, Categorical Data Analysis, Regression

Name Research Areas
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS
A visible research in fundamental Physics along with its applications is the major
theme of Physics Department at IIT Jodhpur. The Faculty members carry out research in 
the field of Astrophysics, Condensed Matter Physics & Material Science, Particle 
Physics, Experimental and Theoretical Quantum Optics, Quantum Information and 
Foundations of Quantum Mechanics. The research facilities available in the department 
include SQUID magnetometer, Physics Property Measurement Systems (PPMS), Raman 
Spectrometer and Scanning Tunnelling Microscope (STM). Following are the faculty 
members associated with the department:
The department also has a Scholar-in-Residence, Professor K. L. Chopra,
Advisor, Thin Film Laboratory, IIT Delhi.

Name Research Areas
DEPARTMENT OF HUMANITIES AND SOCIAL SCIENCES
The Department of Humanities and Social Sciences operates from spaces that
give us an opportunity to act as an interface between empirical and experiential 
knowledge systems. Playing a significant role in the academic curriculum of the young 
engineers, we offer both core and elective courses at the Bachelors, Masters, and 
Doctoral levels. The ability to provide tools and skills for specific aims notwithstanding, 
the essence of Humanities and Social Sciences involves the sensitizing of individuals. 
Acting as facilitators, thus, we engage in meaningful interactions with students and help 
them witness, study, and understand the interplays among technology, society, and 
humanity. This task assumes even more significance in an educational context where the 
brightest young minds of India come together.
With Faculty Members who specialize in diverse disciplines (including
Philosophy, Economics, Psychology, and Literature) and with students from a spectrum 
of backgrounds, the Department provides an enriching platform -where technical 
education can be complemented with human and social understanding. Following are 
the faculty members associated with the department:

Mainak Mazumdar
Economics: Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) and Pharmaceutical Industry, 
Productivity and Efficiency Analysis, Growth and Regional Development, 
Inequality Poverty and Social mobility
Rijo M. John
Economics: Health Economics, Health Policy, Applied Econometrics, 
Development Studies
Snehlata Jaswal
Psychology: Cognition, Psychometrics, Depression
Sreekumar Jayadevan
Philosophy: Philosophy of Science, Aesthetics of Design, Formal Logic, 
Philosophy of Technology
V. Hari Narayanan
Philosophy: Cognitive Studies, Evolutionary Theory, Analytic Philosophy and 
Mindfulness

FOCUS GROUPS
Biologically Inspired System Science (BISS)
Biologically Inspired System Science (BISS) is a stream initiated with the broad
objective to design novel, adaptive and sustainable technological solutions inspired by 
biological systems and processes. The Institute recognises the need for a test-oriented 
singular education towards a creativity-oriented quality multidisciplinary education, 
thereby blur existing boundaries between biology and engineering. B.Tech. Program in 
Biologically Inspired System Science (BISS) is run by this focus group in collaboration 
with the Department of Biology. 
 
 
System Science (SS)
The System Science stream was initiated in 2011 to promote and implement
interdisciplinary education and research by adopting a holistic systems thinking 
approach. Its vision is to transform students into trained graduates with the spirit of 
systems thinking in diverse domains of engineered systems, natural systems, and 
financial systems. The focus group runs an undergraduate program, B.Tech. in System 
Science (SS) in collaboration with the Department of Mathematics.

Staff Members
Kshema Prakash 
Deputy Librarian
Chaman Lal Airi 
Executive Engineer (Electrical)
Sanjeeb Mukherjee 
Executive Engineer (Civil)
Amardeep Sharma 
Assistant Registrar
Manish Kumar Bhomia 
Assistant Registrar
Ashish Kachhawaha 
Superintendent
Gaurav Nigam 
Superintendent
Sandeep Chandel 
Superintendent
Vijay Borana 
Senior Technical Superintendent
Narendra Kumar Singh 
Technical Superintendent
Rimpesh Katiyar 
Technical Superintendent
Chandresh Pareek 
Junior Engineer
Vinay Kumar 
Junior Engineer
Naresh Chouhan 
Junior Superintendent
Sandeep Pareek 
Junior Superintendent
Sharabh Pradhan 
Junior Superintendent
Sudesh Kumar Agnihotri 
Junior Superintendent
Bharat Pareek 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Dheerendra Kumar Yadav 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Poonam Chand Sankhla 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Raju Peta 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Rinkesh Kumar Mangal 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Shailendra Pratap Singh 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Amit Kumar Soni 
Senior Library & Information Assistant
Chunni Chhatwani 
Senior Library & Information Assistant
Kamleshkumar J. Patel 
Senior Library & Information Assistant
Darsh Kumar Khatwani 
Assistant
Gurpreet Kaur 
Assistant
Pardeep Saini 
Assistant
Sharad Srivastava 
Assistant
Dhani Ram 
Stenographer
T. Madhavi Lata 
Stenographer
Ashok Kumar Lunia 
Technician
Ram Singh Ratnu 
Technician
Abhay Kumar Awasthi 
Junior Assistant
Achinta Mondal 
Junior Assistant
Adarsh Kumar Srivastava 
Junior Assistant
Ajay Kumar Singh 
Junior Assistant
Biswajit Pramanik 
Junior Assistant
Goutam Sethiya 
Junior Assistant

Rakesh Kumar 
Junior Assistant
Rashmi Dhyani 
Junior Assistant
Swati Kushwaha 
Junior Assistant
Anurag Gupta 
Junior Technical Laboratory Assistant
Pankaj Singh 
Junior Technical Laboratory Assistant
Bhagya Wardhan 
Junior Technician
Gajraj Sharma 
Junior Technician
Ganpat Chowdhary 
Junior Technician
Hemraj Dhodhawat 
Junior Technician
Praveen Suthar 
Junior Technician
Shubham Pandey 
Junior Technician
Vivek Verma 
Junior Technician

ACADEMICS
Academic Programs
Currently, the Institute offers the following four sets of Programs:
1. Bachelor of Technology Programs:
1. B.Tech. (Computer Science and Engineering) 
2. B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering) 
3. B.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering) 
4. B.Tech. (System Science) 
5. B.Tech. (Biologically Inspired System Science)
2. Master of Technology Programs
1. M.Tech. (Energy) 
2. M.Tech. (Information & Communication Technology) 
3. M.Tech. (System Science)
3. Doctor of Philosophy Programs
1. Ph.D. with specialisation in Computer Science & Engineering 
2. Ph.D. with specialisation in Electrical Engineering 
3. Ph.D. with specialisation in Mechanical Engineering 
4. Ph.D. with specialisation in Biology 
5. Ph.D. with specialisation in Chemistry 
6. Ph.D. with specialisation in Mathematics 
7. Ph.D. with specialisation in Physics 
8. Ph.D. with specialisation in Humanities & Social Sciences
4. Interdisciplinary Programs
1. Ph.D. (Energy) 
2. Ph.D. (Information & Communication Technology) 
3. Ph.D. (System Science)
The Institute will be offering M.Sc. Program in Chemistry, Mathematics, and
Physics, and M.Tech. Programs in Electrical Engineering and Mechanical Engineering 
from the ensuing academic year.

(a) International Institutes and Universities
Collaborations with Academia
The Institute has signed Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) with six
international universities, two international agencies, three national institutes and 
universities, and one national agency for furthering cooperation on specific fronts. These 
MoUs are:
1. 
University of Western Ontario, Canada (9 August 2010)
To explore the possibilities for cooperation in education, training, and
research and also to encourage direct contact and mutual cooperation between 
faculty members, departments, and research centers.
2. 
Universitat Rovira I Virgili, Tarrgona, Spain (29 August 2010)
For the development of mutually beneficial academic program and
courses; coordination of academic staff travel for the purposes of teaching, 
research, and training; cooperation of student mobility program for study, 
research, and for joint academic activities such as research publications, 
conferences and symposia; exchange of documentation and research materials 
in the field of mutual interest provided that there are no legal barriers against 
exchange and collaboration in international master’s and doctoral programs 
between both the institutions.
3. 
University of Waterloo, Canada (25 November 2010)
For collaborative measures to foster international experience and
advancement of knowledge on the basis of reciprocity, mutual benefit, 
interaction and exchange of students in graduate programs.
4. University of Manitoba, Canada (9 December 2010)
For the development of mutually beneficial programs for student
internships and graduate study in order to provide students opportunities for 
advancement of knowledge and international experience.
5. 
University of California, Merced (26 April 2011)
For the development of mutually beneficial relationships for promoting
academic exchange, scholarly cooperation, and collaborations under mutually 
agreeable terms and conditions: the exchange of faculty members, scientists 
and students and scientific material, access to library resources, pursuit of joint 
meetings, symposia and/or conferences and access to laboratories as may be 
appropriate and feasible in the two institutes.
6. Arid Forest Research Institute, Jodhpur, India (15 August 2011)
For the development of sheltering belt plantation as urban forestry
model for at a selected site at IIT Jodhpur.
7. 
Institute of Science and Technology, Nara, Japan (28 February 2012)
To promote academic exchanges in fields where each party needs to
enhance its educational and academic programs: the academic exchanges will 
include, implementation of collaborative research, joint symposia, lectures and 
education and exchange of scholars, researchers, and administrative staff; 
exchange of information in fields which are of interest to both parties and 
exchange of graduate students in fields of interest to both parties.

(b) International Agencies
(c) National Institutes and Universities
To cooperate in areas of solar energy research, such as Concentrated Solar
Power (CSP) and Concentrated Photovoltaic (CPV), water production by using 
solar energy, renewable energy storage and smart management, integration of 
solar energies and energy efficiency in buildings.
2. 
Embassy of France in India (28 March 2011)
To explore prospective domains for students and scholars to learn French
language effectively.
1. 
All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur
To collaborate in various academic activities in the spheres of expertise.
2. 
National Law University, Jodhpur
To collaborate in various academic activities in the spheres of expertise.
3. 
Sardar Patel University of Police, Security, and Criminal Justice, Jodhpur 
(12 June 2013)
To promote academic exchanges in fields where each party needs to
enhance its educational and academic programs.

S. No. Speaker & Topic
(2) Dr. Siddhartha SenGupta
(4) Dr. Vineet Kshirsagar
Collaborations with Industry
IIT Jodhpur is initiating to collaborate with industry towards enhancing the
learning experience of students and collaboration opportunities for Faculty Members. 
These include:
1. Vanguard Lectures; and 
2. Industry Immersion Program.
Vanguard Lectures
The Vanguard Lecture Series is an integral part of Blended B.Tech. Program. It
enables the Students to listen to inspirational talks given by experts from Industry and 
Academia, and to get a big-picture of the technological advances and emerging trends in 
different fields.
So far, two series of Vanguard Lectures were organised since July 2014, namely:
1. Series 1: July - September 2014, and 
2. Series 2: January - March 2015.
The following are the details of speakers and topics covered in the two series.

(6) Dr. S. Sekar
(8) Dr. N. Kumar
(10) Professor Mohan Ramanan

(13) Raghuraman N. Govardhan
(15) L. V. Subramaniyam
(17) Timothy A. Gonsalves
(19) Asok K. Mallik

Sl. No. Industry
1. 1. Larsen & Toubro Limited
3. Tata Motors Limited
Industry Immersion Program
The Institute has signed Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) with five leading
Indian Industries to strengthen its undergraduate technical education. The Industry 
Immersion Program, the unique flagship program of the Institute that blends the 
classical classroom B.Tech. Program with the 3-summer engagement in Industry, is 
being co-hosted with the following Industries:

5. Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
The Institute is looking forward to sending its B.Tech. students to this Industry
Immersion Program in the summer of 2015.

S. No. Project Title
1. 1. Enabling Technologies for Intelligent Wireless Sensor Network for Health and Environment
3. Development of Metal Doped TiO Low Dimension Structures by Sputtering for Gas Sensing
2
5. Developing Dielectric Semiconductor Combinations and Processes for Flexible Organic
7. Establishment of the Centre of Excellence in Solar Thermal Research and Education
9. Identification, assessment and characterization of E3 ubiquitin ligases implicated in the
RESEARCH
R & D Projects
The Faculty Members in the Institute are currently working on 32 sponsored
research projects. Their details are:

11. How AMFR gene regulates cell division and cancer after stress exposure?
13. Bioremediation of low level wastes including denitrification using microbial fuel cells
15. Deposition of particulate matter in lungs
17. Dual scale simulations of surfactant, co-surfactant water system
19. Generation, Storage and Distribution of Solar Hydrogen
21. Molecular Sensors: Synthesis and Anion Recognition Studies

23. Multimedia security based on biometrics for copyright protection and authentication
25. Development of Ferroelectric and their composite with hexaferrites for microwave
27. Development of plasmonic metal hybrid electrode system for II-VI quantum dot sensitized
29. Synchrony Based Evolution of Various Biological and Artificial Systems to Understand
31. Language, Cognition & the Human Mind

Research Achievements
For his outstanding contribution in the field of Materials
Engineering and Microelectronics, Mahesh Kumar has been decorated 
with INSA Young Scientist Medal at the INSA Annual Convention in 
December 2014. This award carries a medal, citation, cash prize of Rs. 
25,000/- honorarium to the candidate, start-up research support with 
seed money of Rs. 5 lakhs per year for a period of three years and a 
visit abroad with full support for presenting research work at
conferences, and/ or participating in collaborative/ training research projects wherever 
possible.
This prestigious award was given for his work on thin films of polar and non-
polar Group III-Nitrides as grown by Molecular Beam Epitaxy. This work has led to the 
fabrication of blue emitting InGaN/GaN multiple quantum well LEDs. More recently he 
has initiated a program on ZnO thin films and nano structures for sensors at IIT 
Jodhpur.

Faculty Publications
JOURNAL PUBLICATIONS
In 2014-15, our Faculty Members have published 50 research papers and articles
in scholarly journals; 19 of their works have been covered as conference presentations 
and in conference proceedings; one edited book and one chapter have been contributed. 
The following is a list of these research works.
1. Bhatnagar, G., & Jonathan Wu, Q. M. (2014). A novel chaos-based secure transmission of
biometric data. Neurocomputing, 147, 444–455.
2. Bhatnagar, G., & Liu, Z. (2015). A novel image fusion framework for night-vision
navigation and surveillance. Signal, Image and Video Processing, 1–11.
3. Bhatnagar, G., & Wu, Q. M. J. (2014). Biometric Inspired Multimedia Encryption Based
on Dual Parameter Fractional Fourier Transform. IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, 
and Cybernetics: Systems, 44(9), 1234–1247.
4. Bhatnagar, G., Jonathan Wu, Q. M., & Atrey, P. K. (2014). Robust logo watermarking
using biometrics inspired key generation. Expert Systems with Applications, 41(10), 
4563–4578.
5. Bhatnagar, G., Saha, A., Wu, Q. M. J., & Atrey, P. K. (2014). Analysis and extension of
multiresolution singular value decomposition. Information Sciences, 277, 247–262.
6. Bhatnagar, G., Wu, Q. M. J., & Liu, Z. (2015). A new contrast based multimodal medical
image fusion framework. Neurocomputing, 157, 143–152.
(2014). Bias-stress stability of low-voltage p-channel and n-channel organic thin-film 
transistors on flexible plastic substrates. Organic Electronics, 15(11), 3173–3182.
8. Chakrabarti, R., Debnath, A., & Sebastian, K. L. (2014). Diffusion in an elastic medium:
A model for macromolecule transport across the nuclear pore complex. Physica A: Statistical 
Mechanics and Its Applications, 404, 65–78.
9. Chaudhary, G., Sharma, R. K., & Plappally, A. K. (2014). Local material composite
sintered systems for fluoride removal. Desalination and Water Treatment, 1–12.
10. Chhabra, M., Mishra, S., & Sreekrishnan, T. R. (2015). Combination of chemical and
enzymatic treatment for efficient decolorization/degradation of textile effluent: High 
operational stability of the continuous process. Biochemical Engineering Journal, 93, 17–
24.
11. Chhangani, D., Chinchwadkar, S., & Mishra, A. (2014). Autophagy coupling interplay:
can improve cellular repair and aging? Molecular Neurobiology, 49(3), 1270–1281.
& Mishra, A. (2014). Mahogunin ring finger 1 suppresses misfolded polyglutamine 
aggregation and cytotoxicity. Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (BBA) - Molecular Basis of 
Disease, 1842(9), 1472–1484.

Ubiquitin ligase ITCH recruitment suppresses the aggregation and cellular toxicity of 
cytoplasmic misfolded proteins. Scientific Reports, 4:5077, 1-12.
14. Chourasia, V. S., Tiwari, A. K., & Gangopadhyay, R. (2014). A novel approach for
phonocardiographic signals processing to make possible fetal heart rate evaluations. Digital 
Signal Processing, 30, 165–183.
15. Dani, S. G., Shah, R., & Sharma, P. (2014). Affine almost automorphic actions on compact
nilmanifolds. Ergodic Theory and Dynamical Systems, 35(6), 1783-1794.
Laterally structured ripple and square phases with one and two dimensional thickness 
modulations in a model bilayer system. Soft Matter, 10(38), 7630–7637.
17. Dubey, K., & Kar, K. (2014). Type I collagen prevents amyloid aggregation of hen egg
white lysozyme. Biochemical and Biophysical Research Communications, 448(4), 480–
484.
18. Dubey, K., Anand, B. G., Temgire, M. K., & Kar, K. (2014). Evidence of Rapid
Coaggregation of Globular Proteins during Amyloid Formation. Biochemistry, 53(51), 
8001–8004.
19. Goli, R., Shaik, A. G., & Ram, S. (2014). Fuzzy-Wavelet Based Double Line Transmission
System Protection Scheme in the Presence of SVC. Journal of the Institution of Engineers 
(India): Series B, 96(2), 131-140.
Plappally, A. K. (2014). Multi-variable approach to determine treatment efficiency of 
wetland: size effect and electro-kinetic effects. Desalination and Water Treatment, 1–11.
C. A. (2014). Polyglutamine Amyloid Core Boundaries and Flanking Domain Dynamics in 
Huntingtin Fragment Fibrils Determined by Solid-State Nuclear Magnetic Resonance. 
Biochemistry, 53(42), 6653–6666.
22. Hoop, C. L., Lin, H.-K., Kar, K., Wetzel, R., & van der Wel, P. C. A. (2015). Huntingtin
N-Terminal Fragment Fibrils have a Rigid Amyloid Core Flanked by Non-Amyloid Domains 
with Increased Dynamics. Biophysical Journal, 108(2, Supplement 1), 385a–386a.
23. Jain, P. K., & Tiwari, A. K. (2014). Heart monitoring systems—A review. Computers in
Biology and Medicine, 54, 1–13.
24. Jha, S., & Pan-Yun Ting, J. (2015). Holding the inflammatory system in check: NLRs keep
it cool. F1000Prime Reports, 7:15, 1-11.
25. Jindal, S., Chhibber, R., & Mehta, N. P. (2014). Prediction of element transfer due to flux
and optimization of chemical composition and mechanical properties in high-strength low-
alloy steel weld. Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part B: 
Journal of Engineering Manufacture, 1-17.
26. Kumarasiri, A., Abdelhamid, E., Dixit, A., & Lawes, G. (2015). Effect of transition metal
doping on multiferroic ordering in FeVO4. Physical Review B, 91(1), 014420.

27. Omkar, S., Srikanth, R., & Banerjee, S. (2015). Characterization of quantum
dynamics using quantum error correction. Physical Review A, 91(1), 012324.
28. Omkar, S., Srikanth, R., & Banerjee, S. (2015). The operator-sum-difference
representation of a quantum noise channel. Quantum Information Processing, 14(6), 
2255–2269.
29. Paranjothy, M., & Keshavamurthy, S. (2014). Dynamical traps lead to the slowing down
of intramolecular vibrational energy flow. Proceedings of the National Academy of 
Sciences, 111(40), 14354–14359.
K. (2014). Capsaicin inhibits collagen fibril formation and increases the stability of collagen 
fibers. European Biophysics Journal, 44(1-2), 69–76.
31. Pratiher, B. (2014). Stability and bifurcation analysis of an electrostatically controlled
highly deformable microcantilever-based resonator. Nonlinear Dynamics, 78(3), 1781-
1800.
32. Ranwa, S., Kulriya, P. K., Dixit, V., & Kumar, M. (2014). Temperature dependent
electrical transport studies of self-aligned ZnO nanorods/Si heterostructures deposited by 
sputtering. Journal of Applied Physics, 115(23), 233706.
ZnO nanorods for low temperature hydrogen sensor applications. Applied Physics Letters, 
105(21), 213103.
Sundaresan, A. (2015). Observation of Room Temperature Ferromagnetism in InN 
Nanostructures. Journal of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology, 15(6), 4426–4430.
35. Sahu, S., Ghosh, S., Fujita, D., & Bandyopadhyay, A. (2014). Live visualizations of
single isolated tubulin protein self-assembly via tunneling current: effect of electromagnetic 
pumping during spontaneous growth of microtubule. Scientific Reports, 4:7303, 1-9.
36. Samant, A., Mishra, S., Yadav, S., & Badarla, V. (2014). A Cross Layer Protocol to
Mitigate Effects of Radio’s Linear Impairments. International Journal of Information and 
Communication Technology.
37. Shaik, A. G., & Pulipaka, R. R. V. (2015). A new wavelet based fault detection,
classification and location in transmission lines. International Journal of Electrical Power 
& Energy Systems, 64, 35–40.
38. Sharma, P., Sarma, R., Chandra, L., Shekhar, R., & Ghoshdastidar, P. S. (2014). On the
Design and Evaluation of Open Volumetric Air Receiver for Process Heat Applications. 
Energy Procedia, 57, 2994–3003.
39. Singh, A. G. (2014). Achieving Ergodicity in Quasi-Static MIMO With Polynomial-Time
Complexity and One Bit of Feedback. IEEE Wireless Communications Letters, 3(5), 533–
536.
Plappally, A. K. (2014). Comparative analysis of hydrodynamics of treatment wetlands 
using finite volume models with empirical data. Desalination and Water Treatment, 1–26.

41. Sinha, M., & Sedrakian, A. (2015). Magnetar superconductivity versus magnetism:
Neutrino cooling processes. Physical Review C, 91(3), 035805.
42. Tripathi, S., Mohan, A., & Yadav, S. (2014). A multinotched octagonal shaped fractal
UWB antenna. Microwave and Optical Technology Letters, 56(11), 2469–2473.
43. Tripathi, S., Mohan, A., & Yadav, S. (2014). Hexagonal fractal ultra-wideband antenna
using Koch geometry with bandwidth enhancement. IET Microwaves, Antennas & 
Propagation, 8(15), 1445–1450(5).
44. Tripathi, S., Mohan, A., & Yadav, S. (2014). Ultra-wideband antenna using Minkowski-
like fractal geometry. Microwave and Optical Technology Letters, 56(10), 2273–2279.
45. Tripathi, S., Mohan, A., & Yadav, S. (2015). A compact octagonal-shaped fractal UWB
antenna with Sierpinski fractal geometry. Microwave and Optical Technology Letters, 
57(3), 570–574.
46. Tripathi, S., Mohan, A., & Yadav, S. (2015). A compact UWB antenna with dual 3.5/5.5
GHz band-notched characteristics. Microwave and Optical Technology Letters, 57(3), 
551–556.
47. Veeranki, S. P., Mamudu, H. M., John, R. M., & Ouma, A. E. O. (2015). Prevalence and
correlates of tobacco use among school-going adolescents in Madagascar. Journal of 
Epidemiology and Global Health, 5(3), 239-247.
E. O. (2015). Secondhand Smoke Exposure Among Never-Smoking Youth in 168 Countries. 
Journal of Adolescent Health, 56(2), 167–173.
K.(2014). Empirical models for change in pH and temperature within gravity-based reactor 
columns. Desalination and Water Treatment, 1–15.
CONFERENCE PRESENTATIONS
& PUBLICATIONS IN CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS
Development of affordable ICT solutions for water conservation in agriculture. In 7th 
International Conference on Communication Systems and Networks (COMSNETS), 
Bangalore, India, 6-10 January (pp. 1–6). Piscataway, NJ: IEEE.
2. Bhartiya, P., Rathore, N., & Fulwani, D. (2014). A tutorial on implementation of sliding
mode observer for DC/DC power converters using FPGA. In IECON 2014 - 40th Annual 
Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society, Sheraton Hotel Dallas, Dallas, 
TX, U.S.A., 30 October- 01 November (pp. 4153–4159). Piscataway, NJ: IEEE.

(2014). Charge-carrier injection, extraction and trapping dynamics in organic thin-film 
transistors based on different organic semiconductors evaluated by displacement current 
measurements. In 72nd Annual Device Research Conference (DRC), The University of 
California, Santa Barbara, California, 22-25 June (pp. 73–74). Piscataway, NJ: IEEE.
4. Chaudhary, B., & Pratiher, B. (2014). Nonlinear responses of externally excited rotor
bearing system. In CSNDD 2014 - International Conference on Structural Nonlinear 
Dynamics and Diagnosis, MATEC Web of Conferences, 16, 03006, (pp. 1-4). Les Ulis, 
France: EDP Science.
5. Shaik, A. G., Yadav, S. K., Prashanth, P., & Vamshi Krishna, T. (2014). Transmission
line protection scheme using Wavelet based alienation coefficients. In Muhamad, M. I. & 
Seroji, M. N. (Eds.), 2014 IEEE International Conference on Power and Energy 
(PECon), Pullman Hotel, Sarwak, Malaysia, 1-3 December (pp. 32–36). Piscataway, 
NJ: IEEE.
6. Hiremath, K. K. (2014). Finite elements based numerical solution of nonlocal
hydrodynamic Drude model of nano-plasmonic scatterers, In 12th International 
Conference on Fiber Optics and Photonics, Kharagpur, India, 13-16 December (p. 
M3D.4). Washington, DC, USA: OSA.
7. Kulkarni, S. S., & Badarla, V. (2014). On multipath routing algorithm for software defined
networks. In 2014 IEEE International Conference on Advanced Networks and 
Telecommuncations Systems (ANTS), New Delhi, India, 14-17 December (pp. 1–6). 
Piscataway, NJ: IEEE.
8. Pal, D., Adhikari, B., & Mazumdar, M. (2015). Strategic network formation involving
social relations: Enmity and friendship. In 7th International Conference on 
Communication Systems and Networks (COMSNETS), Banglore, India, 6-10 January 
(pp. 1–6). Piscataway, NJ: IEEE.
9. Prakash, S. K., Sharma, R. K., Roy, M. S., & Kumar, M. (2014a). Carbon coated stainless
steel as counter electrode for dye sensitized solar cells. In Predeep, P. & Sujith A. (Eds.) 
AIP Conference Proceedings 1620, NIT, Calicut, Kerala, India, 19-21 March (pp. 218–
222). Melville, NY: AIP Publishing.
10. Prakash, S. K., Sharma, R. K., Roy, M. S., & Kumar, M. (2014b). Investigation of
chemically synthesized graphene as counter electrode for dye sensitized solar cells. In 
Predeep, P. & Sujith A. (Eds.) AIP Conference Proceedings 1620, NIT Calicut, 
Calicut, Kerala, India, 19-21 March (pp. 223–229). Melville, NY: AIP Publishing.
11. Rathore, H., & Badarla, V. (2014). Primary-secondary immune response adaptation for
wireless sensor network. In Eleventh Annual IEEE International Conference on 
Sensing, Communication, and Networking (SECON), Singapore, 30 June- 3 July (pp. 
164–166). Piscataway,NJ: IEEE.
12. Sahu, Anurag, Dixit, A., & Hiremath, K. K. (2014). Plasmon enhanced absorption in
Au:ZnO hybrid systems, In 12th International Conference on Fiber Optics and 
Photonics, Kharagpur, India, 13-16 December (p. T3A.45). Washington, DC, USA: 
OSA.

13. Salvi, G., Sharma, P., & Raman, S. (2014). Efficient image retargeting for high dynamic
range scenes. In Shukla, B. (Ed.), 5th International Conference- Confluence The Next 
Generation Information Technology Summit, Amity University, Noida, Uttar 
Pradesh, 25-26 September (pp. 543–548). Piscataway, NJ: IEEE.
Latency and cost requirements of systems for teaching MAC protocols. In Twenty First 
National Conference on Communications (NCC), IIT Bombay, Mumbai, 27 February- 
01 March (pp. 1–6). Piscataway, NJ: IEEE.
15. Singh, S., & Fulwani, D. (2014a). Constant power loads: A solution using sliding mode
control. In IECON 2014 - 40th Annual Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics 
Society, Sheraton Hotel Dallas, Dallas, TX, U.S.A., 30 October- 01 November (pp. 
1989–1995). Piscataway, NJ: IEEE.
16. Singh, S., & Fulwani, D. (2014b). Voltage regulation and stabilization of DC/DC buck
converter under constant power loading. In 2014 IEEE International Conference on 
Power Electronics, Drives and Energy Systems (PEDES), IIT Bombay, Mumbai, 16-19 
December (pp. 1–6). Piscataway, NJ: IEEE.
17. Harsha, C. S., Prasanth, C. S. R., & Pratiher, B. (2014). Modeling and non-linear
responses of MEMS capacitive accelerometer. In CSNDD 2014 - International Conference 
on Structural Nonlinear Dynamics and Diagnosis, MATEC Web of Conferences, 16, 
04003, 4. Les Ulis, France: EDP Science.
18. Tripathi, S., Mohan, A., & Yadav, S. (2014). A compact dual band-notched fractal antenna
for UWB application. In Asia-Pacific Microwave Conference (APMC), Sendai, Japan, 
4-7 November (pp. 205–207). Piscataway, NJ: IEEE.
19. Tripathi, S., Mohan, A., & Yadav, S. (2014). A compact octagonal shaped fractal UWB
MIMO antenna with 5.5 GHz band-notch characteristics. In IEEE MTT-S International 
Microwave and RF Conference (IMaRC), Yeshwanthpur, Bangalore, 15-17 December 
(pp. 178–181). Piscataway, NJ: IEEE.
EDITED BOOKS
1. Vijay, V., Yadav, S., Adhikari, B., Seshadri, H., & Fulwani, D. (Eds.). (2015). Systems
Thinking Approach for Social Problems (Vol. 327). New Delhi: Springer India.
BOOK CHAPTERS
1. RajanBabu, T. V., Adam Cox, G., Lim, H. J., Nomura, N., Sharma, R. K., Smith, C. R.,
& Zhang, A. (2014). Hydrovinylation Reactions in Organic Synthesis. In P. Knochel 
(Ed.), Comprehensive Organic Synthesis II (Second Edition) (pp. 1582–1620). 
Amsterdam: Elsevier Science.

Outreach
IIT Jodhpur is picking-up momentum in its outreach activities to provide
technical advantage to persons outside the Institute. Some of these activities include 
engagement with interior India, sharing lecture series with the interested intellectuals, 
encouraging young students of India to take to technology, and special focus on 
students of North-East India.
Undergraduate Research Initiative
The Undergraduate Research Initiative (UGRI) Program at Indian Institute of
Technology Jodhpur provides an effective platform to the students to engage in research 
with Faculty Members of the Institute. Also, students can get a chance to develop 
valueble mentorship through the guidance of experienced Faculty Members of the 
Institute.
In 2014-15, the UGRI program was opened for both IIT Jodhpur students and
Non-IIT Jodhpur students. Eleven candidates were selected from a large pool of 
applications, on the basis of the merit of the proposal submitted. The program was 
organized from 6 May to 5 July 2014. During the program, a remuneration of Rs. 8000 
per month, as stipend, was given to the participating candidates, along with a maximum 
amount of Rs. 1000 for preparing posters and reports. 
 
 
Unnat Bharat Abhiyan
Aligning ourselves with the MHRD’s Unnat Bharat Abhiyan, the Institute has
just identified the three villages, with which it would be engaged. Work is underway to 
undertake a techno-social survey to understand the villages and identify technology 
challenges being faced by them.
There are a number of villages surrounding the permanent campus site of IIT
Jodhpur with whom initiatives can be taken up in building organic relations as a part of 
Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA). A survey was conducted in short-listing these villages. 
Idea is to develop some technologies such as low cost filters to reduce fluoride contents. 
UBA at IIT Jodhpur has shortlisted themes such as low cost waste management by using 
local material and Ayurvedic materials, compost toilets, solar energy, precision farming 
to be taken up in these villages. IIT Jodhpur is also taking initiatives in sensitizing 
students and faculty members to work under UBA activities.
A core team of people coordinates the activities of Unnat Bharat Abhiyan at IIT
Jodhpur by rendering their services by being a part of the team, through their expertise 
various areas like technological interventions to improve the quality of life in villages; in 
socio economic study; in contributing to the task of building an organic relation with the 
villages through other means.
The activities of Unnat Bharat Abhyan are coordinated by V. Hari Narayanan,
Coordinator (Students). Alongside, Faculty Members, Staff Members and Students are 
involved in the activities.

Lecture Series
The Institute invites accomplished persons from different walks of life to expand
and enrich the horizons of its Faculty Members, Staff Members and Students. These 
invitations are grouped under the following categories, namely:
1. Distinguished Lectures, 
2. MEA - IITJ Distinguished Lectures, and 
3. Extra-Mural Lectures.
Details of the lectures organized in the Institute in this year are, as below:
The Distinguished Lecture series brings in a meaningful exchange of ideas from
outside to the Institute with eminent scholars of Humanities, Sciences and Technology.
The following Distinguished Lectures were delivered till now:
(1) 
Professor Bruce Alberts 
Renowned American Biochemist 
Former President, National Academy of Sciences, USA 
“Science and the World’s Future” 
17 January 2014
(2) 
Professor K. L. Chopra 
Former Director, IIT Kharagpur 
“Ethics in Science & Technology” 
10 March 2015
In collaboration with the Ministry of External Affairs (Government of India), the
Institute launched the “MEA – IIT Jodhpur Distinguished Lecture Series”, where current 
and former Ambassadors of India spend time at the Institute to share their experiences 
and understanding of India from outside India.
So far, two distinguished visitors were invited to the Institute:
(1) 
Ashok Sajjanhar 
Former Ambassador to Latvia, Sweden and Kazakhstan; 
Currently, Secretary of National Foundation of Communal Harmony (NFCH) 
“India's Foreign Policy: Challenges and Opportunities” 
11 April 2014
(2) Bhaswati Mukherjee
Former Ambassador of India to the Netherlands & Permanent 
Representative to the UN 
“Indian Culture and Civilisation through the Ages” 
12 February 2015

Professionals with standing and missionary zeal, who dedicated their lifetime in
specific domains, are invited to the Institute to share their career paths - the trials and 
tribulations, and the way forward for the current generation seeking to tread such 
challenges. The Extra-Mural Lectures delivered in this year are:
(1) Pallavi Kumar
Executive Director 
MOHAN Foundation, New Delhi 
“Have you ever thought about organ donation?” 
15 October 2014
(2) 
Chitra Madhavan 
Historian and Archeologist 
“The Development of Temple Architecture in India” 
21 January 2015
(3) 
Prabhat Ranjan 
Executive Director, Technology Information, Forecasting and Assessment 
Council (TIFAC), New Delhi 
“My Journey to Brain” 
30 January 2015
Participation in IIT Pavilion at India-US Technology Summit and Knowledge Expo
IIT Jodhpur participated in the India-US Technology Summit and Knowledge
Expo, from 18-22 November 2014, at India Expo Mart, Greater Noida, Delhi NCR. The 
Technology Summit was organized by the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) and 
Department of Science & Technology, Government of India, on 18-19 November 2014. 
The Knowledge Expo 2014 was organized from 20-22 November 2014, which was a 
confluence of six key verticals of the economy coming at the cusp of knowledge creation 
and consumption- higher education, intellectual property, design, innovation and 
entrepreneurship, research & development and technology.
A team of six members comprising of Faculty and Staff Members of IIT Jodhpur
represented the Institute and showcased the Institute’s thrust areas in research, like 
Solar Energy, technology areas in development in IIT Jodhpur’s Technology Park like 
Critical Technologies, Arid Zone Technologies, Automotive Technologies, and Health 
Care Technologies, and its Academic Programs, on this occasion.
IIT Jodhpur Team at the Knowledge Expo 2014

INSTITUTE EVENTS
Second Convocation
The Second Convocation of IIT Jodhpur was held on 16 July 2014. Former
Director General of Defence Research and Development Organisation and distinguished 
missile scientist Dr. V. K. Saraswat graced the occasion as the Chief Guest of the 
ceremony. On this occasion, 127 B.Tech. Students and 31 M.Tech. students received their 
degrees.
Members of Senate on dais
Award of Degrees to Students

Celebration of National Festivals
Independence Day Celebrations
The 68th Independence Day was celebrated in the Institute on 15 August 2014
with a great spirit of patriotism. The Director, Faculty Members, Staff Members and 
Students participated in it. The function started at 08.05 am on the morning of 15 August 
at the Academic Campus with the Director, Professor C. V. R. Murty hoisting the 
national flag, followed by rendering of the national anthem and Director’s address. The 
students organized various cultural programs like performance of IITJ musical band 
‘Sangam’, recitation of patriotic poems, speeches, dance and street play performance. 
Prizes were distributed to students who aced in academics and extra-curricular 
activities. The national festival was also celebrated in the two residential campuses of the 
Institute.
Cultural Presentation by Students on 15.8.2014
Republic Day Celebrations
The 66th Republic Day was celebrated in academic and
residential campuses of IIT Jodhpur on 26 January 2015. 
Professor C. V. R. Murty, Director, II T Jodhpur unfurled the 
flag in the academic campus at 8.00 am and addressed the 
members of Faculty and Staff, and Students. Republic Day was 
also celebrated at the two residential campuses. Later in the 
evening a cultural program and a get together was organized 
for the IIT Jodhpur community at the GPRA Residential 
Campus.

Ground Breaking Ceremony
The Institute performed the groundbreaking ceremony of auspicious bhoomi
poojan at its permanent campus at Karwar Village on 2 May 2014. The pooja was 
performed by Sh. Amardeep Sharma, Assistant Registrar of the Institute. It was attended 
by the Director and other invitees of the Institute. This ceremony marks the beginning of 
our own, permanent campus construction activity.
Performing Bhoomi Poojan & Ground Breaking Ritual

Strengthening IIT Jodhpur Community…
Team Building Workshop
The institute conducted a ‘Lightening Survey’ and a ‘Way Forward Survey' in
which the Faculty and Staff Members of the institute have provided their valuable 
inputs that served very valuable and helped to identify a departure point. Towards our 
objective of making this Institute a special place for our students, staff members and 
faculty members, and a respectable one in the eyes of industry and the nation, a need 
was felt to shift gears to reach many more heights.
In continuation to these efforts, to synergise the energies of all Faculty and Staff
Members at the Institute, a 2-day "Team Building Workshop" was arranged during 1-2 
May 2014, which was attended by all faculty and staff members of the institute. The 
workshop was organized by M/s Dialog, a professional group from Gurgaon, which 
was coordinated by some of the faculty members with the help of Mr. M. L. Bapna, our 
advisor (Academia-Industry Interface). During this 2-day exciting event, the IIT Jodhpur 
community worked out the future landscape, blueprint and vision of the Institute with 
great enthusiasm and vigour by contributing their invaluable thoughts and inputs. 
These two days witnessed great enthusiasm and coming-togetherness of the IIT Jodhpur 
community.

Workshop on Leadership System
To take forward our human resource development focus, a workshop on
“Leadership System” was organized on 9 August 2014 with the following objectives:
Faculty Development Program
A Faculty Development Program was organized for the Faculty Members of IIT
Jodhpur in the month of December 2014. It was organized in two series. First one was 
from 2-6, and the second one was from 9-13, December 2014.
During this FDP, eminent academicians and accomplished personalities were
invited to conduct sessions on topics like Academic Career, Research – Proposals, 
Projects and Publishing, IPR Issues, Teaching – Pedagogical Aspects and Engaging the 
New Generation, Time Management, Professional and Personal Development. The 
program was attended by all the Faculty Members.
Farewell to the outgoing batch of Students
As a benign gesture to mark our association so far with the Final Year B.Tech.
and Final Year M.Tech. Students, the Institute organized a small function followed by 
dinner with the outgoing students on 2 May 2014. This event was organized in the lawns 
of the Academic Campus of the Institute at 7:30 pm and the Director of the Institute 
graced the occasion and wished the outgoing students a fulfilling career and wonderful 
life ahead. On this occasion, the students who performed very well in extra-curricular 
activities were presented with medals and certificates. Mahesh Chand Gurjar from CSE, 
Sudhir Kumar Singh from EE and Abhinav from ME were given the awards in B.Tech. 
category, while Avadhesh Kumar Sharma was awarded in M.Tech. category. It was a 
moment of melancholy of feelings for the outgoing students, as well as for the Faculty 
and Staff members for the institute. With this event, IIT Jodhpur has marked the 
beginning of celebrating Institute Day on 2 May.

Award of Certificates to Best Performers and Farewell to the outgoing batch of Students
on the occasion of Institute Day on 2.5.2014
Observance of Days of National Importance & Awareness Drives
Teachers Day 
 
In commemoration of the birth anniversary of Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan,
Teachers Day was celebrated in the Institute on 6 September 2014. The Faculty Members 
and Students of IIT Jodhpur had an opportunity to hear Professor D.V. Pai from IIT 
Gandhinagar and Professor M. Jagadesh Kumar from IIT Delhi who visited us on the 
occasion, and to interact with them. On this occasion, students were awarded certificates 
for best performance in academics. In the evening, a cultural function was organized at 
the GPRA Residential Campus of IIT Jodhpur, as a part of the Teacher's Day celebration.
Teachers Day Program on 6.9.2014
Swacch Bharat Abhiyan & Gandhi Jayanti
The Institute undertook cleanliness drive under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan
from 25 September 2014 to 2 October 2014. A pledge for “Swachh Bharat Mission” was 
taken by the entire IIT Jodhpur community, on 2 October 2014, on the 145th birth 
anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. Gandhi Jayanti was celebrated in the GPRA 
Residential Campus in the evening, where in the Students, Faculty Members, and Staff 
Members participated. As a part of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, IIT Jodhpur invited the

District Collector of Jodhpur District, Dr. Pritam B. Yashwant for a talk and an 
interactive session on Jodhpur Swachhata aur Harit (JoSH) launched by the District 
Collectorate in the local premises of Jodhpur, on 16 October 2014.
Coffee with Collector on Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, 16.10.2014
Rashtriya Ekta Diwas
National Unity Day was observed on 31 October 2014, the birth anniversary of
Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel by taking the Rashtriya Ekta Diwas pledge. On this occasion, 
literary works of Sardar Patel were highlighted in Library.
Initiatives in Establishment & Administration
Recruitments
Before embarking on new recruitments of Faculty and Staff Members, the
Institute has developed norms for the processes to be adopted. This has assisted the 
Institute in its new recruitment cycles. 12 offers to Administrative Staff Members and 
three to Faculty Members were made this year. New online application system was 
developed and adopted for both Faculty and Staff recruitment. 
 
 
Administrative Systems and Processes
Administration is working to promote smooth Governance with emphasis on
transparency, accountability, growth-orientation, and informed decision-making 
structures. Efforts are underway at developing a process-oriented organisation with 
defined norms and systems to undertake various activities of the Institute. Special 
attention is given to human aspects in the functioning of the Institute, including 
adherence to unified mission, vision and core values.

FACILITIES
Our Campus
Present Campuses
At present, IIT Jodhpur operates from two sets of temporary campuses, namely: 
 
Temporary Academic Campus: It operates independently from the premises of MBM 
Engineering College in Jodhpur, situated on the Old Residency Road, Ratanada, at a 
distance of about 4 km from the Jodhpur Railway Station and 3 kms from the Jodhpur 
Airport. 
 
Temporary Residential Campuses: IIT Jodhpur has two residential campuses located at (1) 
GPRA Residential Campus, New Pali Road Jodhpur, and (2) BSNL Residential Campus, 
Subhash Nagar, Jodhpur. GPRA Campus is located at New Pali Road, about 17 kms from 
the academic campus and provides accommodation to nearly 600 B.Tech. boy and all girl 
students. Also, it provides accommodation to nearly 150 other members of IIT community, 
including Faculty Members, Staff Members, and their family members. On the other hand, 
BSNL Campus is located in the heart of the city and provides accommodation to nearly 150 
male M.Tech. and Ph.D. students. Limited housing is available on this campus for married 
students. 
 
TEMPORARY ACADEMIC CAMPUS 
Currently, the academic campus of IIT Jodhpur comprises of three blocks, namely: 
(i) 
Academic Block 1: It houses several laboratories, the library, a computer center and 
offices of some Faculty Members.
(ii) Academic Block 2: It comprises of lecture halls, classrooms, language lab and
multimedia lab.
(iii) Administrative Block: It comprises the Directorate, administrative offices, technical
laboratories and offices of some Faculty Members.
In addition, the academic campus consists of some temporary structures used for
different purposes such as laboratories and office spaces. IIT Jodhpur has established good 
academic facilities for teaching and research. The Institute has well equipped Laboratories 
and a Library.

Laboratories and Research Facilities
IIT Jodhpur has established state-of-the-art teaching and research laboratories. These
advanced laboratories have machinery and devices of international standard, which are 
actively used in research. The major laboratories include Heat Transfer, Fluid Mechanics, 
Electronic Circuit Laboratory, Robotics, Electro Mechanical Energy Conversion Laboratory 
and Solar Radiation. 
 
Library
The Library has a collection of about 12,000 volumes of books comprising of
textbooks, research and reference books, monographs etc. In addition, the Library provides 
access to a range of electronic resources from professional and scholarly societies and 
publishers, such as American Society for Mechanical Engineers, Institute for Electrical & 
Electronics Engineers, and Association for Computing Machinery, to name a few. Also, it 
subscribes to popular scientific, research and archival databases, like SciFinder, MathSciNet, 
JStor, Prowess, and EBSCO Academic Search. 
 
The Library operates in a computerized environment with automated member &
circulation services, and digital library services. Memberships, circulation, reference & 
information service, inter library loans & document lending services, current awareness 
service, digital library service are some of the important services that are presently offered.
TEMPORARY RESIDENTIAL CAMPUSES 
GPRA Residential Campus
The major residential area is in a scenic campus located on New Pali Road, Vivek
Vihar, Jodhpur, about 20 kms from the railway station. The campus is well guarded and 
equipped with basic amenities including Wi-Fi, recreational rooms and a computer center. 
Also, the residential campus provides accommodation for Faculty Members and Staff 
Members of the Institute. Transport facility is available between the Institute and 
Residential campus. 
 
BSNL Residential Campus
The second residential campus is located in BSNL Colony on Pal Link Road in
Subhash Nagar. Basic common facilities are available at BSNL colony. Transport facility is 
available between the Institute and BSNL Campus. All male M.Tech. and Ph.D. and some 
married students are given accommodation in this residential campus. 
 
Facilities 
Following are some basic facilities made available in the residential areas: 
(a) ATM & Bank: The residential area has a branch of SBI (State Bank of India) as well as an
ATM of SBI, enabling students to make transactions with ease. There are several other 
banks namely UCO, HDFC and SBBJ close to the academic area.
(b) Canteen: There are two sets of canteens, one at Residential Campus and the other one in
Academic Campus. They provide hygienic food, fresh juices and various other snacks 
for the students.
(c) Gymnasium: A well-equipped gymnasium is present in the Residential Campuses,
operational during 5 am to 10 pm. Students can avail these facilities to stay healthy and 
to maintain his/her physique.

(d) Dining Facility: There are two sets of Dining Facilities, one in the Residential Campuses
and the other one in the Academic Campus. The mess offers good quality food, 
regularly monitored by the Wardens for hygiene and nutritional values, and provided at 
affordable cost.
(e) Shops: Shops catering to the various primary needs of students are present near the
Academic Campus. A small outlet is functional inside GPRA campus for urgent petty 
purchases.
(f) Transport Services: The Institute has a bus service running between the Residential and
Academic Campuses at regular intervals, exclusively for the Students of the Institute.
(g) Entertainment Room: Every hostel consists of recreation facilities (like TV Rooms, where
students can enjoy matches and watch movies) along with indoor games (like table 
tennis and carroms).
Medical Services
Both the Residential Campuses have Health Centers for providing routine health
services. Due to geographical locations of the two Campuses and the type of the residents, 
Health Center at GPRA Campus provides services to the patients round the clock, while 
medical services are available at BSNL Campus for limited hours in the evening, typically 
from 5 pm to 10 pm. In addition to the availability of medical services at Residential 
Campuses, medical assistance is available at Academic Campus. This assistance is normally 
provided from 3 pm to 4.30 pm, when laboratory sessions are in full swing and medical 
assistance may be required. The Institute has its ambulance services available round-the-
clock.
Besides the Health Centers, the Institute has empanelled five hospitals in the city of
Jodhpur. Two of these hospitals have specializations in ophthalmology and one in 
orthopedic, and the remaining two hospitals are the best known general purpose hospitals 
in the city. For specialized medical attention doctors at our Health Centers refer patients to 
one of these hospitals. In addition to these five hospitals, the city has a Medical College and 
three hospitals run by Government of Rajasthan. Also, the city All India Institute of Medical 
Sciences (AIIMS), which is nearly 12 km GPRA Campus and nearly 5 km from BSNL 
Campus. Also, the Institute has constituted a Medical Board consisting of Senior Doctors 
from the Medical College and the AIIMS; advice is taken for enhancement of medical 
services of the Health Centers and in critical medical cases. IIT Jodhpur has empanelled two 
hospitals in Jaipur. These two hospitals are accredited by National Accreditation Board for 
Hospitals & Healthcare, and patients can be referred to these hospitals as per the need of the 
treatment.

Permanent Campus
In the forthcoming years, IIT Jodhpur will shift to its sprawling state-of-the-art
residential permanent campus on 852 acres of land located ~24 km away from the center of 
the city of Jodhpur on National Highway 65 towards Nagaur, N-NE from the center of 
Jodhpur. The permanent campus has 3 parcels of land. The Institute is finalizing plans for 
adopting one of for harvesting technologies. This new campus has been planned 
meticulously and envisioned to stand as a symbol of academics – simple, but deep.
The foundation stone for the permanent campus was laid on 16 April 2013 by the Hon.
Union Minister for Human Resources Development (Government of India), Dr. M. M. 
Pallam Raju. The Permanent Campus of the Institute is being constructed. Work to build 
Phase 1 of the campus began in March 2015. When complete, it will be the first fully-
planned technical institute campus in India. More importantly, it will be an international 
exemplar of sustainability with strategies for ensuring NET ZERO ENERGY, WATER and 
WASTE. The other salient features of the Permanent Campus are: 
(1) Walking campus, which is pedestrian oriented and bicycle dominant; 
(2) Learning facilitated anywhere, anytime with wireless ICT backbone (including Multi-
media enabled learning spaces with flexible, shared public spaces);
(3) Thermally comfortable smart buildings with GRIHA 4/5 star compliant buildings and
GRIHA LD benchmark campus (including dense desert settlement morphology, low

height buildings (up to a maximum of 3 storeys) built with low embodied energy 
materials, and improved local and traditional methods);
(4) Plantation with native species, soil stabilization, protection from dusty wind to arrest
erosion, desertification, and building-up soil moisture over time;
(5) Rain water harvesting, and water reduction and sewage recycling, together greening the
site over time; and
(6) Segregated wastes and customized recycling
Entrance structure of IIT Jodhpur permanent campus
The campus will have housing for Faculty Members and Staff Members, along with a
school (up to Class XII), bank, post office and market. Also, it will have a Primary Health 
Center with hotline connections to reach the top hospitals of the city, like the All India 
Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur, and a fully equipped ambulance service. A large 
parcel of the Permanent Campus (of about 182 acres) is set aside for the development a 
TECHNOLOGY PARK to strengthen institute-industry interactions.
Faculty Member housing
The first migrations into the campus are likely to take place by early July 2016.

Computer Center
The Institute has a modern Computer Center, presently running on a gigabit LAN
with 1Gbps internet bandwidth. It is the nucleus of all computing activities for Students, 
Staff Members and Faculty Members. Several terminals running on Windows and 
GNU/Linux operating systems across the campus, provide access to several licensed 
software, like MatLab, Mathematica, Cadence, Mentor Graphic, Ansys, PSCAD and 
Solidworks. A 802.11/b/g/n Wi-Fi service is enabled in the academic and residential areas. 
Also, the Computer Centre hosts a High Performance Computing cluster for scientific 
research. 
 
Resources
The Institute has five key resources at the Computer Center, namely, the Linux
Operating System, SVN Server, GIT Server, OwnCloud and various licensed application 
software that are used for academic and research purpose, have made it possible to offer the 
various resources and facilities. 
 
Facilities
The Institute extends three facilities, namely, networking, computing, and Internet
access facilities through its Computer Center.
Services
The Institute offers services like FTP, LDAP, HPC, Web Hosting, Network
Connectivity, VPN, EduRoam, and News Group, through its Computer Center.

Library
Library supports the teaching and research activities of the Institute by facilitating
acquisition, organization and dissemination of knowledge resources, and also by providing 
library & information services to IIT Jodhpur community. Library is located on the ground 
floor of Academic Block I in the Academic Campus of IIT Jodhpur, in room nos. 1001, 1001 
Extension, and 1011. Library functions with the guidance of Library Committee, which has 
representatives from all Departments, and Student Representatives.
Library Collection
The Library has a rich and growing collection of 12,000 volumes of books (approx.),
which include textbooks, and books of general and reference nature. A wide range of 
scholarly journals and databases are also subscribed from various sources for the academic 
and research purposes of the Institute. 
 
Services & Facilities
The following services and facilities are being provided by the Library to its registered
1. Member & Circulation Services 
2. Orientation & User Education 
3. Borrowing Facility 
4. Reference & Information Service 
5. Course Reserves 
6. Current Awareness Service 
7. Inter Library Loan & Document Supply 
8. Digital Library Facility & Services
Digital resources are accessible through the Library website, which is a
comprehensive site maintained by Library. They include the Library subscribed resources, 
online catalogue, lists of useful resources accessible in the open domain like the open access 
journals, books, repositories, video lectures, open courseware. These resources are 
continuously updated.
Room No. 1001, AB1 – Stacks & Circulation Section

S. No. Description Statistics
1. Books added
a. Number of titles added 141
b. Number of volumes added 596
2. Number of Scholarly Resources subscribed Total 28
a. Fulltext resources 23
b. Research databases 5
3. Document Supply & Inter Library Loan service requests fulfilled Total 528
a. Document supply of articles & research papers 513
b. Books arranged on Inter Library Loans 35
4. Circulation Transactions Total 22,976
a. Number of book check-outs 11170
b. Number of book check-ins 11355
c. Number of book renewals 423
d. Number of book recalls 28
Library also maintains a portal for hosting bibliographic listing of the Faculty
Publications. Additionally, a course guide portal has also been developed and maintained 
by Library, wherein, resources i.e., books available in Library, subscribed journals, resources 
accessible in open domain are listed and linked, course-wise. This platform is very useful for 
the students in finding topical and course-wise resources. Library also provides remote 
access to the subscribed scholarly resources and anti-plagiarism checking.
Room No. 1011, AB1 – Course Reserves & Digital Library Section Room No. 1001 Extension, AB1 – Reading Room
Appearing below are some vital statistics of Library for FY 2014-15:
Details of E-Resources 
 
Library has licensed the following electronic resources in this year, for teaching,
research and private study of its academic community. 
 
A. Fulltext Resources
1. Association of Computing Machinery Digital Library 
2. American Chemical Society Journals 
3. American Institute of Physics Journals 
4. American Physical Society Journals

5. American Society for Mechanical Engineers Digital Library 
6. Bioinformatics Journal 
7. EBSCO Academic Search Complete 
8. Human Molecular Genetics Journal 
9. IEL (IEEE) Online Digital Library 
10. Interdisciplinary Studies in Literature and Environment Journal 
11. Journal of Biological Chemistry Journal 
12. Journal of Consciousness Studies 
13. Journal of Immunology 
14. JStor Archives 
15. MIT CogNet Journals 
16. Nature Journal 
17. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 
18. Quantum Information and Computation Journal 
19. Royal Society of Chemistry Journals 
20. Science Online 
21. Elsevier Science Journals 
22. Society of Industrial & Applied Mathematics Journals 
23. Springer Journals
B. Research Databases
1. CMIE Prowess 
2. EPW India Times Series 
3. IndiaStat 
4. MathSciNet 
5. SciFinder
Along with providing regular library facilities and services, the library staff
members are also engaged in rendering services in preparation of Institute’s publications 
like the Annual Report, Institute Newsletter; and also actively contribute in maintaining the 
Institute’s website and repositories. 
 
 
Library has conducted an anti-plagiarism awareness and training session using
Turnitin Anti-Plagiarism software on 20 September 2014. It was attended by Faculty 
Members and Students.

Sl. No. Name of the Laboratory
1. Advance Manufacturing Laboratory
3. Biomolecular Information Processing Laboratory
5. Chemistry Laboratory
7. Control / DSP / Microprocessor Laboratory
9. Dynamics & Vibration Laboratory
11. Electronic Circuit Laboratory
13. Fluid Mechanics & Heat Transfer Laboratory
15. Instrumentation & Communication Laboratory
17. Materials Testing & Solid Mechanics Laboratory
19. Multimedia Laboratory
21. Physics Laboratory
23. Protein Engineering Laboratory
25. Robotics Laboratory
Laboratories
IIT Jodhpur has established good number of teaching and research laboratories and
facilities, which aid in elevating the students from minimalist academic concerns to 
inquisitive world of scientific arena. These teaching and research laboratories help Faculty 
Members and Students work for better future by supplementing and improving existing 
technologies and bodies of knowledge, using competence, creativity and imagination. The 
list of laboratories established in IIT Jodhpur is below, and whose details follow.

1. Advance Manufacturing Laboratory
In the Advance Manufacturing Laboratory, CAD model of object is prepared using 3D
modelling software like ProE, SolidWorks, and Catia. FE analysis is carried out using 
Analysis software like Ansys, Nastran/Patran and precision manufacturing is carried out 
using CNC programing/CNC machines and Rapid Prototyping Machine/ 3D Printer. The 
manufactured components are characterised for mechanical behaviour using UTM, 
Hardness testers, Impact testers etc. The role of CNC machines in increasing flexibility and 
precision of the product to be manufactured and, increasing productivity are illustrated. The 
Advance Manufacturing Laboratory of institute is equipped with following facilities:
1. CAD Section 
2. Precision Machining Section 
3. Rapid Prototyping Section 
4. Mechanical Behaviour Characterisation section
2. Advanced Biosciences and Neuroscience laboratory
The Advanced Biosciences and Neuroscience laboratory is a part of the center of
excellence in biologically inspired systems science (BISS). This laboratory provides cellular 
and molecular investigative tools for UG and PG teaching and research in neuroscience. Cell 
culture studies are utilised along with molecular biology, biochemistry and microscopy 
approaches to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying molecular and cellular 
interactions underlying inflammation and repair. Inflammation is a key component of many 
diseases including traumatic brain injury, cancer, multiple sclerosis, stroke, asthma, 
Parkinson’s disease and Alzheimer’s disease. Inflammation is characterized by

accumulation and proliferation of innate immune cells. This is followed by clearance of 
dead cells and cellular debris along with enhanced expression of molecular mediators called 
cytokines and chemokines, which cause migration and proliferation of immune cells and 
may even lead to cell death. Understanding the mechanisms by which inflammation occurs, 
and the molecular mediators involved in this process, is necessary for identification of 
potential therapeutic targets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Biomolecular Information Processing laboratory
This laboratory is involved in the understanding of information processing by
various kinds of biomolecules and related synthetic molecules. The process involves in 
using a single molecule first and then a group of molecule on a given interface. The 
interaction among the molecules in a given external stimuli will help us understanding the 
communication among them.

4. Central Workshop
Central workshop is the central facility of Institute, consisting of various workshops
such as Welding shop, Carpentry shop, Fitting shop, Sheet metal shop, Foundry and Heat 
treatment shop and Machine shop. Undergraduate Students get hands on experience in 
above sections by doing the job work and carrying out projects as part of their coursework 
and also students utilize the facilities for fabrication purpose of their academic projects. It 
also supports the R&D projects of the institute handled by various Faculty Members and 
Ph.D. and M.Tech. Thesis work of research scholars by providing them assistance in 
fabrication of their research set-ups. 
 
The following machines and equipment are available in the Central Workshop:
1. Welding fume extraction down draft table 
2. Multi process welding equipment 
3. Portable single phase MIG/MAG 
4. AC/DC welding equipment 
5. MIG/MAG welding equipment 
6. Treadle operated shearing Machine 
7. Hand operated Folding Machine 
8. Kaizen Muffle Furnace 
9. Hand operated Jeeny or Burying Machine 
10. 
Motorized Circle cutting Machine
11. 
Hand operated Circle cutting Machine
12. 
Hydraulic shearing Machine
13. 
Portable Heating Plant
14. 
Portable hardening plant
15. 
Forging Heating Plant
16. 
Aluminium Melting Plant

17. 
Fitting Table
18. 
Mould Making Facility
19. 
Portable Tool Grinder
5. Chemical Biology Laboratory
Organisms at the cellular level possess a well-established protein quality control
mechanism which the lab team is trying to understand at present. The role of E3 ubiquitin 
ligases was reported in such mechanisms so far. Our laboratory is dedicated to a qualitative 
research in the field of protein quality control mechanisms. We have recently found that a 
HECT domain containing E3 ubiquitin ligase E6-AP helps in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis 
diseases suppression through its association with the misfolded protein aggregates formed 
by SOD1 mutants. Such findings support that an E3 ligase can have a capability to clear the 
misfolded protein aggregation. However, while appreciating the incredible efficiency of 
cellular systems, we must recognize the crucial role of chaperones which are supposed to 
work preferentially compared to E3 ubiquitin ligases in order to refold the misfolded 
proteins, and hence conserving the energy utilized during the translation of those proteins. 
Various examples made us think that we could explore the role of both the chaperones and 
E3 ubiquitin ligases in the clearance of misfolded proteins. Therefore, now we are working 
not only with E3 ubiquitin ligases but also with the chaperones and even in their functional 
association to confer an efficient quality control mechanism to the cell.

6. Chemistry Laboratory
The core objective of the chemistry laboratory of IIT Jodhpur is to train students in
scientific methods that would solve real problems at the frontier of our understanding of the 
matter. This is a multi-use laboratory and provides a number of resources to assist 
undergraduate, graduate and Ph.D. students in planning their professional careers after 
completing their academic program at IIT Jodhpur.
This laboratory maintains a broad spectrum of state-of-the-art instrumentation
including basic laboratory set up (for organic, inorganic, organometallic and material 
synthesis), Nitrogen, Oxygen and LPG gas line, Inert atmosphere boxes, vacuum line work, 
fume hood pH, conductivity, BOD, COD, meters, Rotary evaporator, Vacuum pumps, 
centrifuges, High pressure reactor system, Chiller, microbalances, Orbital Shaker, GC, 
HPLC and Radleys ready reactor. In the academic year 2012-2013, the lab procured 
equipment such as Polarimeter, Melting point Instrument, Solar Simulator, Digital Titrator, 
Kugalrohr, Electrochemical work stations, and Battery analysers.
A 500 MHz NMR spectrometer with solid state probe is an essential resource, whose
mission is to make a state-of-the-art high field NMR and methods available to researchers, 
providing a place for them to pursue their projects and develop new methodologies in NMR 
methods.

7. Control / DSP / Microprocessor Laboratory
The lab provides software and hardware infrastructure for carrying out experiments
in the field of Control Systems, Microprocessor and DSP. Broadly, the lab includes the 
following experimental setup: 
a. Control Systems
1. Ball & Beam System from Quanser 
2. Magnetic Levitation System from Quanser 
3. Inverted Pendulum System from Quanser 
4. Software include Scilab / MatLab
b. DSP Lab Equipment 
c. Microprocessor Lab
8. Digital Language Laboratory
The Digital Language Laboratory
provides resources, facility, and support 
for foreign language instruction and 
learning to the entire student community 
of IIT Jodhpur. The lab is the multilingual 
computing and assessment center of the 
Institute. The lab team explores and 
implements 
methods 
through 
which
multimedia technology renders a more 
authentic experience to learning a foreign 
language. Here, for language learning purposes one could seek recourse to technologies like 
the Internet and interactive video, audiovisual techniques, multi-modal iconic approach, 
and speech recognition. The exercises include listening and comprehension, grammar-based 
exercises, placement solutions, and mastery tests. The main features of this facility include 
Smart Class Symposium LL from Robotel and New Dynamic English Learning Program 
from Dyned International. All the facilities at the Digital Language Laboratory are 
proficiency-oriented, standard-based, and nurture the students’ enthusiasm for gaining 
global exposure and proficiency in a foreign language.

9. Dynamics and Vibration Laboratory
Dynamics and Vibration Laboratory is well equipped with various mechanisms such
as Motorized Gyroscope Apparatus, Static and Dynamic Balancing Apparatus, Universal 
Governor Apparatus, Coriolis Component of Acceleration Apparatus, Epicyclic Gear Train 
Apparatus, Cam Analysis Machine Apparatus, Universal Vibration Apparatus, Stroboscope 
and Tachometer 10 in helping the students to understand the behavior of the various 
mechanisms and forces acting on them.
In addition, the laboratory is also equipped with various vibration measuring
instruments for computing the vibration characteristics of a machine or structures and 
equipment for vibrating the machine or structures in order to finds its resonance 
characteristics in various environmental conditions. Following equipment are available for 
measuring and/or testing vibration characteristics of elements to structures.
10. Electro Mechanical (EM) Energy Conversion Laboratory
In order to familiarize students to Electrical Machines properties & characteristics,
IIT Jodhpur has established “Electro Mechanical Energy Conversion Laboratory” and has 
continually been developing the potential of its lab facility. In this lab, state-of-the-art 
“Electrical Engineering” facilitates the students to empower their potential by familiarizing 
themselves with the fundamental of electro-mechanical energy conversion process, 
including several practical & industrial applications of machines in true applicable 
environment. This lab occupies conventional as well as modern equipment to fulfil the basic 
and modern technological requirements with continual developing efforts.

11. Electronic Circuit Laboratory
In this laboratory the students make and test their analog and digital circuits by using
all kinds of circuit components like diode, transistor, op-amps, and clocks. The lab has 
following equipment:
1. Arbitrary Function Generator from Agilent 
2. Digital Oscilloscope from Agilent 
3. Programmable Power Supply from Scientific 
4. 6 1/2 BIT DMM from Agilent
12. Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory
The Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory at IIT Jodhpur, in addition to serving
various undergraduate and post-graduate courses, undertakes research in the areas of 
bioenergy and bioremediation. Researchers in the lab investigate on waste to energy 
conversion processes with an aim to develop sustainable biotechnological solutions to water 
pollution and energy. At present, successful bioremediation processes for nitrate and 
chromium(VI) contaminated wastes have been developed. Also, research is underway for 
the development of low cost Microbial Carbon Capture cells for power generation and algae 
cultivation. In addition to this, researchers in the lab have been successful in isolating novel 
yeasts, the potential biodiesel producing candidates.

13. Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer Laboratory
At Fluid Mechanics Laboratory students learn about the following:
1. Analyses and evaluation of experimental data 
2. Comparison between theoretical models and experimental data 
3. How to design a fluid mechanical and heat transfer system e.g. a piping system
considering various technical aspects, heat exchanger, thermal energy storage, 
receiver, wind catcher, volumetric air receiver.
In addition to the above, this laboratory aims at generating innovative ideas in
students by promoting the design of experiments and small scale projects. At present in the 
fluid mechanics laboratory are conducted experiments on losses in pipes (smooth/rough) 
and fittings (e.g. valves, bends), comparison between different flow meters, particle image 
velocimetry technique, Hot-wire anemometer, labscale sub-sonic wind tunnel for- pressure 
distribution around a cylinder/air-foil, lift and drag balance, boundary layer development, 
weather monitoring. Furthermore the lab provides training on standard software, such as, 
CFAST for fire simulation.
Currently the Heat Transfer Laboratory is equipped with the demonstration of
various thermometry techniques, heat exchange system, ventilation system, Natural and 
forced convection system, heat conduction unit for different materials, lab and industrial-
scale solar water heater system, and thermal radiation unit. All these equipment are 
installed with respective software.
For testing, calibration and research purpose in these laboratories, various
equipment such as Laser Doppler Velocimeter with Particle Analyzer, pressure and 
temperature calibration, blower with variable flow, pressure transducers, differential 
pressure transducers, turbine test rig, turbo-machine test rig, IC engine test rig etc., have 
been procured.
Moreover, multi-purpose test set up is being indigenously designed and the
components / sub-systems involved are being fabricated locally. This system aims at 
investigation and evaluation of solar thermal sub-systems such as volumetric air receiver, 
thermal energy storage, air-water heat exchange systems and their simultaneous operation. 
Devices such as earth air heat exchange system, wind catcher, and air-cooled heat exchange 
systems are being fabricated and tested for certain applications.

14. High Temperature Solar Thermal Laboratory
Six laboratories are being set-up under the MNRE funded project entitled as
“Establishment of Center of Excellence in Solar Thermal Research and Education at IIT 
Jodhpur”. High Temperature Solar Thermal Laboratory is one of these specialized 
laboratories. The aim of this laboratory is:
1. Fundamental aspects of fluid flow and heat transfer related problems, like, dust
deposition
2. Design and analysis of sub-systems for concentrated solar thermal systems
Some of the sub-systems being designed and 
analyzed in this laboratory are:
(a) Open Volumetric Air Receiver for process
heat applications
(b) Compact heat exchanger 
(c) Solar Convective Furnace
This laboratory includes test facility, such as, 
Solar Air Tower Simulator (SATS) facility, 
advanced research grade equipment like Laser 
Doppler Velocimetry. SATS facility includes, 
open volumetric air receiver, thermal energy storage, air-water heat exchanger and is being 
extended with solar convective furnace. 
 
 
15. Instrumentation and Communication Laboratory
The mission of Instrumentation and Communication Laboratory is to provide
platform for UG and PG students on research and hands-on learning in Measurement and 
Automation Technology. The state-of-the-art facilities at this laboratory offer innovative 
research opportunities in the astronomical space of communication and real time 
measurement technology. The experienced Lab team nurtures students' talent in research 
and offers an opportunity for developing sophisticated measurement, test, control systems, 
data analysis system and next generation communication technologies.

Students also develop theoretical and practical competence in (i) building baseband
communication circuits, (ii) the application of NI LabVIEW graphical programming 
software, (iii) the PXI based NI RF/Wireless measurement stand, (iv) evaluating NI WSNs 
and LabVIEW software, adjusting a software-defined radio system, measuring the 
parameters of studied antennas and (v) the operation of analog modulation schemes. NI-
Lab contains software and hardware subsystems which enable rapid prototyping and 
development of embedded systems for various applications. Currently, this lab constitutes 
the following setups:
1. NI ELVIS based Communication Systems and Theory Teaching Stand 
2. Large MIMO Stand for Spectral, Channel Efficiency Studies and New Standard
Development
3. Protocols Stand for WLAN, WiMAX, GPS, RFID, Zigbee, GSM, CDMA, WCDMA,
Bluetooth
4. FPGA-enabled Software Defined Radio Stand for Custom Communication Scheme
Development and Research
5. Basic Analog and Digital Communication Techniques Teaching Stand 
6. Wireless Sensor Networks Stand 
7. Signal Intelligence and Wireless Spectral Monitoring Stand 
8. Wireless Prototype Characterization and Testing Stand 
9. FPGA based protocol development for base-band studies and signal processing 
10. VNA based Antenna Characterization Stand 
11. Fiber Optic Communication Stands 
12. Network Based Manufacturing 
13. USRP (Universal Software Radio Peripheral) based wireless communication system for
physical layer design, record and playback, signal intelligence, algorithm validation 
and more.
14. Network Communication and Manufacturing Control Stand
After three years of its formation, this lab has contributed immensely to the learning
and research activities at IIT Jodhpur. Communications and Networking Lab, Intelligent 
Instrumentation, System Analysis Techniques and Bio-Sensors courses are being offered 
through this lab for both graduate and undergraduate students. The lab has provided the 
right hardware and software tools for many industrial consultancy projects, including the 
development of DRM/DRM+ IP for digital radio standards, Link budget design for Marine 
environment, DRFM based Radar echo simulator and Blind Signal Demodulator. Other 
projects being done in the lab are development of affordable wireless video transmission 
systems, cognitive radio and Zigbee protocol development. 
 
 
16. Magnetic Property Measurement System (MPMS/SQUID)
IIT Jodhpur has created an excellent facility in the field of material characterization.
Recently an additional dimension has been added to it by procuring magnetic property 
measurement system (MPMS). MPMS (SQUID) is getting installed in coming few months. 
This will provide a wide temperature 2 K – 1000 K range for both DC and AC magnetic 
measurements in conjunction with field dependent magnetic measurements. Such

measurements will help to understand magnetic properties and associated spin dynamics in 
magnetic materials. 
 
 
17. Material Testing and Solid Mechanics Laboratory
The material testing lab of the institute provides facilities to test samples of different
types of materials to find out their mechanical properties like modulus of elasticity, tensile 
and compressive strength, stress strain curve, bending properties, hardness etc. The lab is 
equipped with following test equipment:
1. Universal testing Machine 5-50 kN 
2. Rockwell Tester 
3. Brinell Tester 
4. Vickers Tester 
5. Poldi Hardness Tester 
6. Portable hardness tester 
7. Material Testing and Solid Mechanics
18. Materials Analysis Laboratory
The research focuses on the development of novel materials for different
applications including materials for energy generation and storage. The current work 
includes the development of solution processable CIGS compound semiconductor materials 
for solar cell applications and transition metal oxide based materials for lithium ion batteries 
and supercapacitor applications. The laboratory is equipped with synthesis of bulk and thin 
films techniques such as sputtering, sol-gel process assembly etc., and numerous 
characterization techniques such as X-ray diffraction, Scanning electron microscope, Optical 
spectroscopic techniques, LCR meter, ferroic measurement system for bulk samples etc.
In addition, the group is also focusing on the development of multifunctional
materials for different applications such as solar selective coatings, ferroic materials for high 
frequency absorbing system, and magnetic particles for different applications. The

laboratory is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities to carry out thermal analysis, 
electrochemical analysis, surface morphology studies, separation techniques for chemicals, 
electrical conductivity measurement devices, glove box etc. 
 
 
19. Multimedia Laboratory
The Media Laboratory provides facilities to carry out work related to E-learning,
image processing, and computer vision. The thrust areas of research in this lab are: Semantic 
analysis of video/image content, video surveillance, human motion analysis, document 
image analysis, content based image retrieval etc. E-learning related activities include video 
recording, audio-video digitization, video editing, etc. In the academic year 2011-2012, a 
research on Indian sign language recognition using Kinect has been initiated.
1. Scanners: Book Drive Mini, UMAX Powerlook. 
2. Cameras: Sony 177PD, Sony Camcorder, Cannon 500D VCR: Sony DSR 45AP 
3. Tripods: Manfrotto, iMac.
20. Networking Technologies Laboratory
Networking Technologies Laboratory has been started functioning in the Academic
Year 2011-2012. It aims at enabling undergraduate and graduate students, who pursue their 
interest in the area of computer networks, to understand the concepts of computer networks 
and work with contemporary networking equipment in a realistic setting. In addition, the 
lab aims at providing necessary infrastructure to carry out research activities on advanced 
topics, such as wireless mesh networks, sensor networks, communication on power lines, 
from computer networks. The activities that take place in this laboratory are:
1. Prototyping of networking hardware (Example, Ethernet switch, IPV4 router etc.)
using NetFPGA.
2. Developing packet processors using “Click router” modular software framework. 
3. Establishing infrastructure for the mini-Internet, single-hop wireless networks, multi-
hop wireless mesh and sensor networks, power line communication networks, home 
phone line networks.
4. Studies related to the performance analysis of various protocols over on different
network configurations.
5. Development of novel routing algorithms, transport layer mechanisms, and services
for next generation networks.
6. Setting up planet-lab infrastructure (which will essentially become part of the global
distributed computing platform created over the Internet by connecting over 500+ 
sites). This allows the students and researchers not only to understand the traffic 
patterns on the Internet but also to develop new technologies/applications on the 
Internet for distributed storage, networking mapping, peer-to-peer systems, content 
distribution service, and cloud computing.

21. Physics Laboratory
The mission of the Physics laboratory at IIT Jodhpur is to provide students with
experiential knowledge in basic physics. This laboratory has state-of-the-art facilities 
including specific equipment and is currently offering different experiments in Mechanics, 
Waves, Electricity, Magnetism, and Optics. Now the lab has facilities for experimenting with 
Speed of Light, Zeeman Effect, and Michelson Interferometer.
22. Power Electronics Laboratory
The power electronics laboratory is used for undergraduate studies and research in the
area of power electronics based power conversion systems, control systems and drives. The 
laboratory facilitates for faculty and students to conduct research in the areas power 
converters and AC/DC micro-grid. The laboratory is equipped with state-of-art test and 
measurement instruments, converters, power supplies and programming boards. Major 
equipment available in this lab are:
1. High Precision power Analyzer –YOKOGAWA WT3000. 
2. DSO- Tektronix 200MHz (DPO 2024) and 1GHz (DPO 4104B). 
3. Function Generator-Tektronix AFG 3021B. 
4. Power Supply: 0-30V, 1A; 0-32V, 3A; 0-32,
5. Three phase inverter drive. 
6. Three phase inverter stacks. 
7. DC-DC converters. 
8. Differential currents Probes. 
9. Current clamps. 
10. Isolation Transformers. 
11. FPGA training kits and programming boards.

23. Protein Engineering Laboratory
The Protein Engineering Laboratory at IIT Jodhpur is undertaking cutting edge
research in developing biomaterials based on the understanding of structural and functional 
properties of useful proteins such as collagen. The implications of the research could also 
extend towards development of effective biomedical devices and implants.
24. Renewable Energy Laboratory
To resolve most daunting challenge
of this world—energy needs—and also our 
nation’s heavy reliance on fossil fuels, 
Renewable 
Energy 
Laboratory 
(REL)
promotes rigorous and objective empirical 
research at IIT Jodhpur on issues related to 
energy and environment. REL focuses on 
designing, 
testing, 
and 
disseminating
renewable and efficient energy system. The 
mission 
of 
REL 
is 
to 
help 
these
technologies to realize their full potential 
to 
contribute 
to 
environmentally
sustainable development in industrial and 
developing countries. In the renewable energy field, expert faculty and students at this 
Laboratory are currently striving to create an innovative system to efficiently harness 
energy from sunlight and wind power. Recently, a work on solar and wind system for 
household development has been planned and our research effort at REL draws on ongoing 
work in variety of fields, including energy engineering, and environmental risk analysis. 
REL has computer interfaced systems and approximately 30 students can work at a time. 
Students are the greatest resource of REL and IIT Jodhpur has made substantial 
commitment to the area of renewable energy and been providing all required resources to 
execute a viable plan and innovative research at REL. One aspect of the evolution of REL is 
the development of collaborative partnership with other academic and industrial groups. In 
the near future, it will be a hub for training and public-private sector collaboration. 
Recently, the lab has started a consultancy project, with Panasonic R & D India Pvt. Ltd., on 
the prototyping of microbial fuel cells. In addition, the lab has started work on data 
collection, interpretation, and analysis of PV power plants less than 5 MW in Rajasthan and 
Gujarat.

The Renewable Energy Laboratory uses the following equipment:
1. Wind power of 2KW Charge controller ~12V, Synchronous generator with permanent
magnets ~12V, Lamp board ~12V, Off grid inverter etc.
2. PEM Fuel cell Fuel cell with DC converter, Electronic load, Metal hydride storage cell,
3. Advanced Photovoltaics Solar module simulation model 23V/2A, Solar module with
solar altitude emulator, Solar charge controller 12/24V, 6A, Solar accumulator 12V, 
7Ah, Off grid inverter 230V, 275VA etc.
4. Combined RF/DC Sputtering Unit for Coatings Applications
25. Robotics Laboratory
IIT Jodhpur has an advanced robotics laboratory for PG/UG education and research.
The infrastructure includes the following:
1. Vicon Motion Tracking System 
2. Mobile Manipulator comprising of Barret
WAM ARM mounted on a PowerBot Mobile 
robot platform
3. Pioneer P3-DX mobile robots - 10 units 
4. Turtlebot 
5. Wheel Chair 
6. Force Plate 
7. Infrastructure for Mobile Robotics - Navigation, Path-planning, SLAM 
8. Dynamic and Kinematic Control problem, Redundancy Resolution, Inverse
Kinematics of Manipulators and Mobile Manipulators, Visual Servoing
9. GAIT Analysis and Robot Assisted Rehabilitation
26. Solar Radiation Laboratory
The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE)
has selected the IIT Jodhpur campus site as one of their solar 
radiation centers. Solar radiation measurement (Global and 
Direct), Humidity, Ambient temperature, Rain gauge and 
wind speed measurement are carried out at this center and the 
data is transmitted via a satellite link to the MNRE nodal 
center C-WET in Chennai. The instruments in this laboratory 
are powered by a couple of solar panels. The data collected 
from this center enables the solar resource assessment 
required for the setting up of solar thermal and solar 
photovoltaic power plants as outlined in the Jawaharlal Nehru 
National Solar Mission (JNNSM).

Health Center
IIT Jodhpur provides round the clock health care facilities to Students, Faculty and
Staff Members of the Institute, at its residential campuses. The Health Center has five 
doctors and five supporting staff members. Both the Residential Campuses have Health 
Centers for providing routine health services. Due to geographical locations of the two 
Campuses and the type of the residents, Health Center at GPRA Campus provides services 
to the patients round the clock, while medical services are available at BSNL Campus for 
limited hours in the evening, typically from 5 pm to 10 pm. In addition to the availability of 
medical services at Residential Campuses, medical assistance is available at Academic 
Campus. This assistance is normally provided from 3 pm to 4.30 pm, when laboratory 
sessions are in full swing and medical assistance may be required. The Institute has its 
ambulance services available round-the-clock.
Besides the Health Centers, the Institute has empanelled five hospitals in the city of
Jodhpur. Two of these hospitals have specializations in ophthalmology and one in 
orthopedic, and the remaining two hospitals are the best known general purpose hospitals 
in the city. For specialized medical attention doctors at our Health Centers refer patients to 
one of these hospitals. In addition to these five hospitals, the city has a Medical College and 
three hospitals run by Government of Rajasthan. Also, the city All India Institute of Medical 
Sciences (AIIMS), which is nearly 12 km GPRA Campus and nearly 5 km from BSNL 
Campus. Also, the Institute has constituted a Medical Board consisting of Senior Doctors 
from the Medical College and the AIIMS; advice is taken for enhancement of medical 
services of the Health Centers and in critical medical cases. IIT Jodhpur has empanelled two 
hospitals in Jaipur. These two hospitals are accredited by National Accreditation Board for 
Hospitals & Healthcare, and patients can be referred to these hospitals as per the need of the 
treatment.
The Health Center coordinates and supervises the treatment of students, employees,
and their dependents during hospitalization in other hospitals that are empaneled by the 
Institute, to provide in-patient care. Also, an ambulance is available in the GPRA Residential 
Campus for attending to any medical emergencies.
On request, the Health Center extends its health care services to Institute visitors
during their stay in the residential campus. Under emergency circumstances medical 
services are also extended to the non-IIT Jodhpur community residents in the residential 
campus. Details like patient records, medicine procurement/disbursement, assets, 
equipment of Health Center are all computerized.

Sports Facilities
Sports and games facilities to students are provided at four places, namely, the
hostel premises, academic campus, playground of Vidhyashram International School, and in 
the new campus area of Jai Narayan Vyas University. Conveyance is taken care of by the 
Office of Logistics in the Institute. Students also enjoy a gymnasium facility at the residential 
campus.
SC/ST Cell

STUDENT ACTIVITIES
Students Gymkhana
The “Student Gymkhana”, IIT Jodhpur, is divided into five "societies", and in turn
each society is divided into several clubs. These societies fulfil the varied interests of the 
students and contribute to their holistic development. These six societies are:
(1) Academic, Research and Management (ARM) Society, 
(2) Media, Arts and Design (MAD) Society, 
(3) Nurturing-Understanding Technology and Science (NUTS) Society, 
(4) Sports, Adventures, Games and Explorations (SAGE) Society, and 
(5) Writing, Awareness, Vocals, Entertainment, Social (WAVES) Society. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Academic, Research and Management (ARM) Society
The Academic, Research and Management (ARA) Society is a platform for all activities and
initiatives related to Academics and Research. It encourages academic and research activities 
in Institute among students. Also, the society works towards effective involvement of 
students in the decision making. The Mission of the ARM Society is:
(a) To strengthen Student-Faculty interaction and take them beyond only formal association; 
(b) To serve as a platform for students to undertake research projects under Faculty Members,
and to create an environment of cognizance in the student community pertaining to the 
real-life problems; and
(c) To organize various technical meets and seminars to expose students to the recent
discoveries and technological advancements and the innumerable opportunities that they 
can pursue.

The functions and responsibilities of the ARM Society are:
(a) To help individual students address their specific academic concerns; 
(b) To coordinate with the centralized academic facilities such as Computer Centre, Library
and Reading Room;
(c) To support the Senate of the Institute on matters such as revision of academic curriculum;
and
(d) To share concerns of the students on academic and research matters. 
 
 
 
The society deals with all matters regarding public relations and management of the
various activities of all the societies of Students' Gymkhana which take place in the Institute. It 
helps in enhancing one’s personality, management skills, public speaking, writing and 
coordination with student colleagues, towards overall development of students. The 
following clubs operate under the society: 
 
(a) Promotions Club
The Club writes content as well as reports for various Intra and Inter collegiate fests,
special events and seminars, which are held throughout the year. Also, it coordinates for 
the content to be published in local media.
(b) Public Speaking and Personality Development Club
Public speaking is one very important aspect which shows the personality of an
individual. The club organizes sessions to hone public speaking skills, increase confidence 
levels and makes students proficient in Public Speaking.
(c) Entrepreneurship Club
The club collaborates with the E-cells of other institutes and conducts various seminars
and useful activities related to entrepreneurship.
(d) Resource Management Club
The main work of this club is to manage resources during various inter and intra-level
activities efficiently.
(e) Finance and Case-Studies Club
Many individuals are faced with investing and financing decisions at some point in
their life. Having a firm grasp over financial matters aids them in making those decisions. 
The club helps students undertake Case Studies which help to see how the complexities of 
real life situations influence decision making.
(f) Leadership Enhancement and All-round Development (LEAD) Club
This initiative aims at enhancing the overall personality and soft skills of the students,
and prepares them for the professional world. Workshops organized by professionals 
skilled in personality grooming, resume writing, personal interview, etc. Group 
discussions, mock interviews and public-speaking sessions are conducted to train students 
for interviews and help in their personality development. Students get a real-world 
exposure, while getting expert guidance not only from professionals, but also from senior 
students.

Media, Arts, and Design (MAD) Society
Creativity is more than just being different. Anybody can plan being weird; that’s easy.
What’s hard is to be simple. Making the simple, awesomely simple, that’s creativity. The 
society makes people develop their imagination, their talent; teaching them the advancement 
in technology to enhance their knowledge in their field of interest. The society has its 
independent activities, workshops and competitions under the following areas of interest:
(a) Animatrons (The Animation Club)
The Club teaches students to bring the animator out of them, via workshops by
professionals and its own team. With the blend of Stop Motion Animation and Software 
Animation, the Club moves towards paper animation, 2D and 3D graphics animation, 
pixilation, flash light animation.
(b) Ateliers (The Fine Arts Club)
To play with colours is the passion of this Club. Training is imparted to students via
workshops and competitions in fine or decorative arts. We organize a lot of activities of 
interest like painting, sketching, glass etching, face and T-shirt Painting, wax carving, and 
graffiti workshops. This Club gives shape to various festivals of IIT Jodhpur.
(c) Designerds (The Designing Club)
The Club designs logos, posters, newsletters, T-shirts, etc. The Club has given some of
the best designers, who can train with software, like Adobe Photoshop, Indesign and 
Illustrator. The Club members excel in graphic designing which promotes thoughts and 
imagination. Also, the club has won competitions in Mood Indigo – IIT Bombay.
(d) Frame-X (The Film Making and Video Editing Club)
The Club makes videos, record and edits them. The Club, constantly and actively,
takes part in various Inter-College Fests presenting short films or documentaries which 
have gained popularity. The Club members use the most sophisticated HandyCams, 
GoPro cameras dealing with software, like Windows Movie Maker, Sony Vegas and 
Adobe After Effects.
(e) Porta Talkies (The Movie Screening Club)
The Club is responsible for screening of movies, matches and on demand talks.
(f) Shutterbugs (The Photography and Photo-Editing Club)
The Club consistently holds its workshops on Photoshop and provides hands on
experience on technically sound semipro DSLR Cameras. The Club holds responsibility of 
all media coverage of student activities IIT Jodhpur.

Nurturing-Understanding Technology and Science (NUTS) Society
With the thought “Imagination is more important than knowledge”, the Science and
Technology Society (NUTS) of IIT Jodhpur provides students an opportunity to think beyond 
the conventional boundaries of science, to realize their dreams and develop the technology for 
the next generation. The following clubs operate under this society:
(a) Aeromodelling Club
The Aeromodelling Club is a group for aviation and Aeromodelling enthusiasts in the
Institute. The Club provides students an opportunity to make rockets, gliders, planes, 
hovercrafts and fly them up in the air. The activities of the Club include lectures and 
workshops on various Aeromodelling and aviation topics and working on small projects.
(b) Automobile Club
The Club promotes students to design and make their own car. The Club has
developed an eco-friendly manual cum electric driven vehicle. The Club is associated with 
an international body, Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE), and encourages and 
prepares students to participate in national level competitions such as Effi Cycle and Baja.
(c) Astronomy Club
The Club organizes regular lectures and discussions to help students develop a better
understanding of those astronomy phenomenons in nature. The Club made a record at the 
Inter IIT-Tech Meet 2014 by detecting 72 objects in the overnight observatory competition 
“The Messier Marathon”.
(d) Electronics Club
The Club makes students familiar with electronic circuits, and teaches them skills like
working on mini computers (such as beagle bone, Raspberry pie). Also, the club makes 
students familiar with analog as well as digital electronics through various lectures and 
competitions organized throughout the year.
(e) Robotics Club
The Club conducts regular lectures and workshops to provide students a hand on
experience on technologies, such as DTMF, image processing, and motion sensing. Today 
the Club is an active platform for students to display and develop their practical machine-
building skills and knowledge.
(f) Programming and Web Designing Club
With regular lectures, competitions and winter coding camp, the Club provides
students a chance to learn from people around them and improve their coding skills. 
Students get a chance to sit with a group of like-minded people and prepare for various 
national and international level coding competitions.
(g) Science Club
The Club provides students an opportunity to solve the Rubik’s Cube, make their own
angry bird station, and play with air gun, Rube Goldberg etc. The activities of this club 
tests students’ imagination skills and help to improve it.

Sports, Adventures, Games and Explorations (SAGE) Society
Sports are known for producing the most remarkable athletes, colourful characters,
influential leaders and memorable heroes. IIT Jodhpur Sports and Games Society reflects the 
same spirit of introducing sporting activities to the campus community. This society aims to 
promote sports and exercise in the true spirit of sportsmanship and motivate students to work 
with team spirit. The Society strives and endeavours to inculcate and introduce this essential 
activity as a part of the routine in every student's life. All efforts are made to bring out and 
encourage the sports person in each one under the guidance of professional coaches and with 
best sporting facility.
Individuals can be strong on their own, but they are much stronger in a team. Victory
achieved alone can be sweet, but there is nothing sweeter than sharing that moment with 
fellow members. One of the rare times in life one learns to play with his friends and some of 
his enemies, and yet learns to respect each one of them for the innate respect of the sport. That 
is the essence of introducing sports in a student's life to instill the qualities of vigour, sacrifice 
and overall sportsman spirit. The society organizes the Institute team that participates in Inter 
IIT Sports Meet held annually at any one of the IITs. Inter-IIT Championship title is much 
coveted in the whole IIT Jodhpur family. It is the place where every sports student is given the 
opportunity to showcase his/her talent in respective sports and to wear the jersey and run 
around the grounds representing the glorified history of respective IITs along with the 
responsibility to continue the legacy. Every Inter-IIT player has this unique urge to win the 
game for the pride and the honour of the Institute, for the blood, and the tears and the sweat 
to make a team and to earn the spot. The Institute has representation in the sports, like 
Aquatics, Athletics, Badminton, Basketball, Cricket, Football, Lawn Tennis, Squash, Table 
Tennis, Volleyball, and Weightlifting at Inter IIT Sports Meet.
The Institute has many sporting events lined up throughout the year, which act as a
platform to showcase your talent and to keep the adrenaline levels racing. Every year the 
council organizes an Intra-Institute Sports Festival called “KRIDANSH”. This sports fest is 
designed to attract mass participation. It sees the best sporting talents in the Institute pitted 
against each other to fight for the glory of their respective branches. It has games like tug of 
wars, Kho-Kho and Kabaddi, along with regulars.
In addition to sports, the society arranges several adventure tours and coordinates the
Carrom Club, the Chess Club, the Skating Club, the Yoga Club and the Joggers Club.

Writing, Awareness, Vocals, Entertainment, and Social (WAVES) Society
WAVES is the fountainhead of all cultural activities in the institute. It provides
students opportunities to pursue their passion for performing arts and in honing their 
aesthetic sensibilities. Under WAVES, there are five Clubs, which function throughout the 
year.
(a) Dance Club
The Dance Club organises activities ranging from Intra Institute to Inter-Collegiate
events with a special emphasis on workshops on different dance forms. The team, with 
name 'dEFEATtHEbEAT', has participated in different college festivals across country, 
including Chaos (IIMA) and Mood Indigo (IITB) and has also been selected in Indian Hip 
Hop Dance Championship auditions.
(b) Music Club
The Music Club is all about passion and the platform you need to showcase them.
Spanning from the students' band performances for freshers, to the live stages of college 
festivals, Music Club brings opportunities for all the interested students. The major 
highlights include Unplugged Nights and the Musical Extravaganza. Apart from these, 
music learning sessions are conducted for the beginners.
(c) Quiz Club
The main aim of the Club is to generate interest in quizzing as a fun activity that
everyone can indulge in and at the same time gain some handful amount of knowledge. 
The Club organizes interesting Quiz contests/sessions throughout the year to expose 
students to the artistic world of Quizzing and provide a platform to contest at several 
national and intra-collegiate quizzes.
(d) Drama Club
The Club, also known as “DRAMEBAAZ”, performs a variety of plays which are both
didactic and simultaneously entertaining. Nukkad performance is the highlight of the 
Republic and Independence Day celebrations in the Institute, and is quite applauded by 
the audience, leaving them awestruck every time. Also, it performs stage plays.
(e) Literature Club
The Club works on the vision to explore a whole new world of books, belles-letters
and the magic of words. The Club is not all about writing, but hosts fun events like Jam, 
Shout, Hurdles, and Debates. Language is no bar; we have both Hindi and English 
Literature Clubs.
(f) SPIC MACAY Club
The Society for the Promotion of Indian Classical Music And Culture Among Youth
(SPIC MACAY) is a society that helps protect and popularize our rich Indian heritage. 
SPIC MACAY IIT Jodhpur Chapter was formalized in the year 2012.

Student Fests
The Student Gymkhana of the Institute organizes events with dual purpose. On the
one side, these events help engage students in creative work during their leisure hours and 
thereby build skills and interests in them. And, on the other side, these events help students 
to self-organise themselves and provide platforms for others to excel.
The events organized by the Student Gymkhana can be seen in two streams, namely: 
1. Inter-Institute Festivals and Tournaments; and 
2. Intra-Institute Festivals and Championships. 
 
The students were successful in nurturing a culture filled with energy and initiative.
They have organized events which served as a medium of communication and bonding 
amongst themselves. Major festivals like Ganesh Chaturthi, Diwali, Sankranti, Eid and Holi 
were celebrated with great enthusiasm. Sports activities were also regularly conducted to 
encourage sportsmanship, which were supported by the Faculty Members. The following 
are some of the major student activities that had taken place in the campus in the year 2014-
15.
INTER-INSTITUTE FESTIVALS
VARCHAS
Varchas is the inter-collegiate sports festival of IIT Jodhpur. In 2014, it was organized
from 30 October to 2 November. Varchas celebrates the spirit of sportsmanship and serves 
as a platform to showcase countless hours of perspiration put in by college teams to achieve 
excellence in sports. Varchas was first conducted in the year 2011, with a vision of 
promoting sports among the colleges of India, and providing the athletes in India, a 
platform to showcase their talent. 
 
 
 
Competitions are held in the fields of football, cricket, table tennis, lawn tennis,
badminton, squash, volleyball, basketball and athletics in national level stadiums of 
Jodhpur. Varchas promotes healthy competition and is a great opportunity for the teams to 
prove their mettle in their respective sports.

Moreover, belonging to the educated core of the country, the students of IIT Jodhpur
try to fulfil their social obligation through “Soch -The Social Aspect of Varchas”. Soch is a 
platform where the students take up pertinent social issues and try to find possible solutions 
through discussions and debates; spread awareness and conduct drives to involve people 
spanning across varied backgrounds. An attempt is made to create a profound social impact 
for the amelioration of the society.
In 2014, Soch team put their best foot forward to spread awareness about cleanliness
in the society. 
The major events organized as part of Soch were:
(a) Awaaz: A panel discussion was conducted with a great contribution from some
renowned speakers and students from all over the city of Jodhpur.
(b) Intra and Inter School Competitions: To understand the outlook of younger generation
who are tomorrow’s responsible citizens, a visit was undertaken to some schools in 
Jodhpur. Competitions like drawing, essay writing, were conducted to get a reflection of 
their thoughts and ideas regarding cleanliness.
(c) Cross Country Marathon: It was organized on the last day of the festival in Jodhpur city
with a motive to spread awareness about cleanliness in the society. An overwhelming 
response was received from the people and athletes from across the state of Rajasthan.
(d) Pronite: Apart from sportsmanship and social aspects, a pronite was organized to let the
sportsmen refresh themselves. “The Local Train”, an upcoming band performed in the 
pronite.
IGNUS
IGNUS is IIT Jodhpur’s Annual Techno–Social Cum Cultural Festival. In these six
years of its existence it has witnessed a footfall of colleges from all across the country 
making IGNUS a much awaited spectacle every year.

The fest comprises of an array of cultural events, activities and competitions which
keep the fest full of life and zest. Ignus has created an unmatched aura of Science and 
Technology spectacle at the campus of IIT Jodhpur. 
 
 
 
As a part of the social responsibility, IGNUS has initiated a social campaign,
“PRAKRITI” to ensure sustainable development of the society by conducting various 
campaigns, competitions and exhibitions in various schools and colleges. Also adding to the 
fun are the buzzing informals like city wide treasure hunt, “Breakthrough”, which is one of 
the only event of its kind to take place in Jodhpur. 
 
 
 
In its sixth edition, IGNUS scaled new heights by collaborating with big brands.
Javed Ali and Gajendra Verma performed on the two pronites organised during the fest. 
Events like Clash of Bands and Antarang (Fashion Show) were the other highlights. 
Workshops were organized by professionals from different companies, to provide students 
with a technical exposure to current topics including Cloud Computing, Ethical Hacking.
INTRA-INSTITUTE FESTIVALS
IIT Jodhpur Student Gymkhana hosts Intra-Institute Festivals for its own student
community. They are: 
 
(a) Spandan
Spandan is the Intra-Institute cultural fest of IIT Jodhpur, usually the first fest of the
session. It draws an enthusiastic crowd, eager to portray their talents in the cultural 
arena. Versatility in the various categories is extensive, with competitions organized in 
fields, like drama, dance, singing, literature, photography events, informals and fashion 
show. Three days of Spandan awakens the whole campus leaving the students to 
prepare all night. Spandan is one of the first public occasions to take place in the year, 
and hence it brings together students from all years to interact with each other. 
Participation with zeal and showcasing the hidden creativity tamed inside an 
individual, are the motives of the fest.
(b) Nimble
Nimble, the Intra-College technical fest provides a platform to the techno buds of the
Institute to show their hidden talent. Nimble comprises of four action packed days, filled 
with a great variety of tech and science events ranging from intense mind boggling 
events (such as robotics, electronics and programming) to fun filled events (like angry 
bird, quizzes, and crypto)). Apart from the events, talks are organized by eminent 
personalities in the field of Science and Technology, to motivate students to work 
harder, as there is no end to discoveries and inventions.
(c) Kalakriti
Kalakriti is a mixed bag of fun-filled competitions, interesting workshops and back-
to-back movie screenings. “Because everything you can imagine is real!” : this line

wakes up the dormant talent amongst students and the output is sudden burst of colors. 
With a multitude of events ranging from Fine Arts and Clay Modelling, to Photography 
and Video Editing, ‘Kalakriti’ witnesses huge participation from designers and non-
designers alike. Events like ‘Scribble Day’ brings together the entire final year batch of 
students, whom all the other students bid adieu and leave a farewell message or graffiti 
on a common piece of cloth given to them. A great way to bring smile on everyone’s 
face, ‘Kalakriti’ succeeds in spreading joy, unity and togetherness in the small tight-knit 
community of ours.
(d) Kridansh
Kridansh is organized to give sports enthusiasts a chance to pursue their passion in
sports. Matches are organized both outdoor and indoor, such as Gully Cricket, Street 
Football and Single Court Basketball, Chess, Carroms, Badminton, Table Tennis, and 
Swimming. Full-fledged dedication from participants and organizers makes Kridansh 
one of the liveliest events of the year.
Student Accolades
Three of our B.Tech. students as mentioned below have obtained DAAD Working
Internship in Science and Engineering (WISE) scholarship for 2015.
1. 
Jinank Jain, III Year B.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering) Student,
2. 
Navneet Mittal, III Year B.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering) Student, and
3. 
Manish Soni, III Year B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering) Student.

Counselling Service
The prime objective of the team is to organize the Orientation Program. This is
especially tailored to bring the freshers up to speed with life in Institute, while maintaining 
a homely feel, and gently enabling the transition into this Institute. The Counseling Service 
has been an integral part of the Institute since its inception. Every year, it strives hard to 
ensure that every student gets to know IITJ at its most intricate levels, and absorb all that the 
Institute has to offer. Further, the Counseling Service Team takes care of special language 
needs that some students might face during this time. It spares no effort in this, and work 
towards making this transition memorable throughout their lives. 
 
 
 The Counseling Service Team consists of a Faculty Advisor with 30 students (called
Student Guides) bestowed to work for welfare of students. A Student Guide is the backbone 
of the team, with every guide taking 8-10 freshers under his/her vision and guidance. The 
Student Guide works towards helping the student adjusts well in the hostel and in his 
academic life. The Student Guide keeps in continuous touch with the student and his/her 
family. The team ensures that not only the student, but his/her parents too get the 
opportunity to interact with the Student Guide, to maintain a healthy relationship. As part 
of this Counseling, it is the duty of the team to promote development of the student in all 
three aspects, namely:
1. Academics 
2. Extra-Curricular 
3. Personal
For this purpose, voluntary, confidential and free counselling service is offered for a
wide range of issues that include:
1. Academic support: Providing information about the different academic programs of the
Institute, imparting efficient time management skills and study skills;
2. Personal: Overcoming homesickness, adjusting to the new environment and related
3. Counselling advocacy: Psycho-education and referral services to students; 
4. Interaction with the Institute and the existing body of students; and 
5. Encouraging students to discover their extra-curricular interests/hobbies.
Counselling service also focuses on the concerns and difficulties of the students by
providing personal guidance to deal with problems arising during their college life at the 
Institute. The following activities are undertaken by the Counseling Services team:
1. Maintaining the Institute as a ragging free campus; 
2. Organizing “Orientation Program” every year, for the sophomore batch so as to
make them acquainted with the culture of IIT Jodhpur;
3. Organizing workshops related to:
(a) Career counselling, 
(b) Stress management, 
(c) Time management, 
(d) Health care and hygiene, 
(e) Vocational training,

(f) Relationship problems, 
(g) Coping with homesickness and 
(h) Addiction and others;
4. Conducting motivational talks by eminent speakers; 
5. Addressing the academic problems of the students by conducting:
(a) English language sessions for students from vernacular background, and 
(b) Basic Information Technology (IT) skill building sessions etc.;
6. Organizing interaction building events amongst students of different batches, and
with faculty members etc.; and
7. Individually attending to problems of students with poor academic performance.
From 2014 onwards, Counseling Service launched Campus Mentoring System. A
group of students are associated with one Faculty Member and one Staff Member, who in 
turn act as the Mentors of the students.

S. No. Company Number of Students Selected per Total Number
Branch of Students
1. A asaanjobs Pvt. Ltd. 1 1 1 3
4. C 42 Engineering India Pvt. Ltd.
Cognizant 10 6 3 19
6. D irecti 1 1
8. F uture Supply Chain Solutions Ltd. 1 1
9. G irnar Software Pvt. Ltd. 1 1
10. H avells India Ltd. 3 1 4
11. H CL Technologies 2 2
14. M axheap Technologies Pvt. Ltd.
(CoomonFloor.com) 4 4
15. M icrosoft Corporation 4 4
16. M isys Software Solutions (I) Pvt. Ltd. 1 1 3 5
17. M organ Stanley 2 1 3
18. M u Sigma Business Solutions Pvt. Ltd. 1 1
19. N agarro Software Pvt. Ltd. 3 3
21. S igmoid Analytics 2 1 3
22. S napdeal 3 3
23. T ata Consultancy Services 1 2 1 4
Student Placement Cell
The Office of Student Placements (OSP) is run and managed by the students in sync
with the official authorities, thereby taking care of the placement and internship procedures. 
The students coordinate the job of contacting various companies, their interaction with the 
students, arranging pre-placement talks, tests, and interviews.
In 2014-15, companies in core engineering, information and communication
technology, and banking sector, government and public sector organizations have visited 
IIT Jodhpur for placements.
Total 99 of our students i.e., 93 B.Tech. Students and 6 M.Tech. Students, have been
placed with different companies in the year 2014-15. Their details of 2014-15 are:
B.Tech. Undergraduate Students

24. T ata Motors Ltd. 5 5 10
25. T escra Software Pvt. Ltd. 3 3
26. V oylla Retail Pvt. Ltd. 3 1 2 1 7
S. No. Company Number of Students Total
Number of
Students
Placed
1. Cognizant Solutions 1 1
2. Misys Software Solutions Pvt.
Ltd. 1 1
3. Morgan Stanley 1 1
4. Nagarro Software Pvt. Ltd. 1 1
5. Tata Consultancy Services 1 1
6. Tescra Software Pvt. Ltd. 1 1
M. Tech. Postgraduate Students

Alumni Relations
The Office of Alumni Relations of the Institute works for the alumni of the Institute,
no matter where the alumni live. The Office is a canvas of collective experiences and shared 
memories. We urge the Alumni to share with us your stories of both struggle and success. 
As brand ambassadors of the Institute and torch bearers of change, this special bond 
between the Alumni and the Institute, should be the catalyst for valuable exchange between 
the Institute and the big-wide world.
The Office of Alumni Relations is managed by the Alumni Relations Committee,
consisting of two Faculty Members and four Students.
All students completing any specific degree program at IIT Jodhpur become Life
Members with the Office of Alumni Relations and no fee is associated with the membership.
The Alumni of IIT Jodhpur living in Delhi-Gurgaon-Noida region have come
together on 16 February 2015 at India International Center, New Delhi. They are in the 
process of registering the IIT Jodhpur Alumni Association.

Program Year of Number of
Registration Students
Total 113
Total 63
Total 593
Grand Total 769
Sl. No. Roll No. Name Center / Department
1. PG201081501 Belal Usmani Energy
2. PG201081502 Dharmendra Singh Rajpurohit Energy
3. PG201081504 Suresh Kumar Energy
4. PG201082502 Deepak Kumar Chhangani ICT/BISS
5. PG201181001 Deepesh Patidar Energy
6. PG201181003 Pura Ram Energy
7. PG201181004 Vikas Pratap Singh Energy
8. PG201181005 Vikash Chandra Janu Energy
9. PG201181501 Lokesh Saini Energy
List of Registered Students in IIT Jodhpur
IIT Jodhpur has, as on 31 March 2015, a total of 769 students registered in various
programs offered by the Institute. The table below gives the break-up of the registered 
students against the programs.
Following are lists of students registered in various programs offered by the
Institute, detailed according to the Centers and Branches of the various programs.
Ph.D. Students

10. PG201181502 Surendra Singh Barala Energy
11. PG201182001 Abhay Samant ICT
12. PG201182003 Heena Rathore ICT
13. PG201182005 Puneet Kumar Jain ICT
14. PG201182006 Ram Niwash Mahia ICT
15. PG201182007 Ravi Raj Choudhary ICT
16. PG201182009 Sapana Ranwa ICT
17. PG201182010 Saurabh Maheshwari ICT
18. PG201182011 Sibani Bisoyi ICT
19. PG201182501 Amit Bhati ICT
20. PG201182502 Kapil Sharma ICT
21. PG201182506 Shrivishal Tripathi ICT
22. PG201183001 Rohan Sharma System Science
23. PG201183501 Parmod Kumar System Science
24. PG201183502 Preeti Yadav System Science
25. PG201281001 Ajay Jain Energy
26. PG201281002 Dharmesh Kumar Energy
27. PG201281003 Poonam Sharma Energy
28. PG201281004 Shejale Kiran Prakash Energy
29. PG201282002 Deepak Bharti ICT
30. PG201282003 Giriraj Vyas ICT
31. PG201282006 Onkar Krishna ICT
32. PG201282007 Rakesh Kanji ICT
33. PG201282009 Suresh Dahiya ICT
34. PG201282010 Vaibhav Saini ICT
35. PG201282012 Vibha Sahlot ICT
36. PG201282501 Shilpa Pandey ICT
37. PG201283001 Anoopa Joshi System Science
38. PG201283003 Manvendra Sharma System Science
39. PG201283005 Parvinder Singh System Science
40. PG201283006 Pradumn Kumar Pandey System Science
41. PG201283007 Rakesh Kumar System Science
42. PG201283008 Ranveer Singh System Science
43. PG201283009 Vinay Pratap Singh System Science
44. PG201381001 Aditya Raw Gautam Energy
45. PG201381002 Goutam Kumar Gupta Energy
46. PG201381003 Om Prakash Mahela Energy
47. PG201381004 Prakhar Nigam Energy
48. PG201382002 Prachi Budania ICT
49. PG201382003 Rajnish Kumar ICT
50. PG201382005 Vipin Joshi ICT

51. PG201383001 Anjali Singh System Science
52. PG201382002 Anurag Sahu System Science
53. PG201383002 Dipti Trivedi System Science
54. PG201383005 Raj Kumar Satankar System Science
55. PG201383006 Shraddha Choudhary System Science
56. PG201383501 Deepak Kumar System Science
57. PG201383502 Dileep Kumar System Science
58. PG201383503 Manish Raghav System Science
59. PG201383504 Satendra Pal Singh System Science
60. PG201383505 Sunder Pal System Science
61. PG201383506 Vishal Sharma System Science
62. PG201384002 Ankisha Vijay BISS
63. PG201384003 Anuj Kumar Bharti BISS
64. PG201384004 Arun Kumar Upadhyay BISS
65. PG201384005 Ayeman Amanullah BISS
66. PG201384006 Bhubanesh Rathore BISS
67. PG201384007 Kriti Dubey BISS
68. PG201384008 Megha Singh BISS
69. PG201384009 Nidhi Sharma BISS
70. PG201384010 Rahul Badhwar BISS
71. PG201384011 Rakhi N. K. BISS
72. PG201384012 Ridhi Aggarwal BISS
73. PG201384013 Shalini Singh BISS
74. PG201384014 Vibhuti Joshi BISS
75. P14BL002 Sachin Kumar Vyas Biology
76. P14BL003 Amitap Khandelwal Biology
77. P14BS001 Alankar Agarwal BISS
78. P14BS002 Bibin G Anand BISS
79. P14BS004 Manju Kumari BISS
80. P14BS005 Shivanjali Saxena BISS
81. P14BS006 Vandana BISS
82. P14BS007 Ribhav Mishra BISS
83. P14CHM001 Erum Gull Naz Chemistry
84. P14CHM002 Abhinav Srivastava Chemistry
85. P14CS001 Hiteshi Jain CSE
86. P14CS002 Ravi Sharma CSE

87. P14EE001 Ajay Kumar Mahato EE
88. P14EE002 Priyanka Bajaj EE
89. P14EN001 Priya Malpani Energy
90. P14HS002 Pankaj Singh HSS
91. P14HS003 Sana Maidullah HSS
92. P14HS004 Meha Mishra HSS
93. P14HS005 Sumantran Ray HSS
94. P14ME001 Gurveer Singh ME
95. P14ME002 Nipun Ahuja ME
96. P14ME003 Rakesh Joshi ME
97. P14ME004 Ram Niwas Verma ME
98. P14ME005 Sandeep Gupta ME
99. P14ME006 Vaibhav Garg ME
100. P14ME007 Amrita Kaurwar ME
101. P14ME008 Phadatare Hanmant Pandurang ME
102. P14MT001 Supriyo Dutta Mathematics
103. P14PH001 Rajesh Kumar Physics
104. P14PH002 Sanjoy Chatterjee Physics
105. P14PH003 Javid Ahmad Naikoo Physics
106. P14PH004 Vijendra Singh Bhati Physics
107. P14SS001 Brajesh Kumar Shukla System Science
Sl. No. Roll No. Name Department
1. P14VSS001 Adarsh Nigam EE
2. P14VSS002 Amrik Singh EE
3. P14VSS003 Ishan Varun EE
4. P14VSS004 Rahul Kumar EE
5. P14VSS005 Nupur Rathore EE
6. P14VSS006 Parveen EE
Ph.D. Students registered under "Visvesvaraya Ph.D. Scheme for Electronics and IT"

Sl. No. Roll No Name Center
1. PG201271001 Avadhesh Kumar Sharma Energy
2. PG201271002 Balram Choudhary Energy
3. PG201271003 Gurveer Singh Energy
4. PG201271005 Rattandeep Singh Energy
5. PG201271006 Veenu Kumari Energy
6. PG201271007 Vinay Vaishnav Energy
7. PG201271008 Zeeshan Ahmed Energy
8. PG201271009 Sandeep Gupta Energy
9. PG201272001 Ammar Adil ICT
10. PG201272002 Deepa ICT
11. PG201272003 Gagandeep Singh ICT
12. PG201272004 Hiteshi Jain ICT
13. PG201272005 Kulkarni Siddharth Sadanand ICT
14. PG201272006 Manjunath Bj ICT
15. PG201272007 Naresh Kumar Verma ICT
16. PG201272009 Satyam Saxena ICT
17. PG201272010 Shakti Gaurav ICT
18. PG201272011 Shinde Neha Naresh ICT
19. PG201272012 Shirish Mishra ICT
20. PG201273001 Adarsh Kumar Misra SS
21. PG201273002 Brajesh Kumar Shukla SS
22. PG201273004 Saloni Sardana SS
M.Tech. Students, Batch 2012

Sl. No. Roll No Name Center
1. PG201372001 Abhay Arora ICT
2. PG201372003 Arka Ujjal Dey ICT
3. PG201372004 Astha Tyagi ICT
4. PG201372006 Divya Sharma ICT
5. PG201372012 Piyush Chakrawarty ICT
6. PG201372014 Rupali ICT
7. PG201372015 Shruti Srivastava ICT
8. PG201372016 Sumit Kumar Paliwal ICT
9. PG201372017 Tushar ICT
10. PG201372018 Akshay Jain ICT
11. PG201372019 Praveen Chopra ICT
12. PG201372020 Umesh Chaturvedi ICT
13. PG201372021 Vishnu Dutta ICT
14. PG201371002 Chandni Kumari Energy
15. PG201371003 Sheetanshu Tiwari Energy
16. PG201371004 Vinay Maheshwari Energy
17. PG201373001 Abhinav Sharma SS
18. PG201373002 Amanjot Kaur SS
19. PG201373003 Anupam Jain SS
20. PG201373004 Hargeet Kaur SS
21. PG201373005 Jyoti Faujdar SS
22. PG201373006 Mathew Alexander SS
23. PG201373007 Nishith V. Oze SS
24. PG201373008 Raveendra Bavoor SS
25. PG201373010 Mahaveer Meel SS
M.Tech. Students, Batch 2013

Sl. No. Roll No Name Center
1. M14CT003 Ankit Chouhan ICT
2. M14CT004 Anshul Gupta ICT
3. M14CT005 Charu Gupta ICT
4. M14CT006 Piyush Kumar Jaiswal ICT
5. M14CT008 Prem Raj ICT
6. M14CT009 Raj Singh Parihar ICT
7. M14CT012 Vivek Raghuwanshi ICT
8. M14EN002 Satish Energy
9. M14EN003 Swarn Kumar Energy
10. M14EN004 Vishwa Deepak Kumar Energy
11. M14SS001 Amit Kumar Gangwar SS
12. M14SS002 Aniruddha Singhal SS
13. M14SS003 Gaurav Jajoo SS
14. M14SS004 Shreya Goyal SS
16. M14SS006 Vipul Bijawat SS
M.Tech. Students, Batch 2014

Sl. No. Roll No. Name Branch
1. UG201110001 Abhishek Saini CSE
2. UG201110002 Amit Raj CSE
3. UG201110003 Apurv Gupta CSE
4. UG201110004 Ashish Kumar CSE
5. UG201110005 Banoth Surya Prasad CSE
6. UG201110006 Debashish Ghatak CSE
7. UG201110007 Deven Bhooshan CSE
8. UG201110008 Gurupratap CSE
9. UG201110009 Hari Om Gaur CSE
10. UG201110011 Hemraj Kumawat CSE
11. UG201110012 Jitendra Kumar Chaudhary CSE
12. UG201110013 Jitendra Singh Garhwal CSE
13. UG201110014 Kalpnath Rao CSE
14. UG201110015 Kankanti Nithin Veer Reddy CSE
15. UG201110017 Kuchana Maharshi Devaraj CSE
16. UG201110018 Mahesh CSE
17. UG201110019 Mayank Agrawal CSE
18. UG201110020 Mayank Mittal CSE
19. UG201110021 Palak Samaiya CSE
20. UG201110022 Pitta Divya Shree CSE
21. UG201110023 Praneeth A. S. CSE
22. UG201110024 Prashant Rastogi CSE
23. UG201110025 Ravi Kumar Meena CSE
24. UG201110026 Revti Raman Singh CSE
25. UG201110027 Rishi Mishra CSE
26. UG201110028 Sahil Kharb CSE
27. UG201110029 Sanjeev Kumar CSE
28. UG201110030 Santosh Kumar Siddharth CSE
29. UG201110031 Saurabh Kumar Gangwar CSE
30. UG201110032 Shah Jenil Dilip CSE
31. UG201110033 Shivam Verma CSE
32. UG201110034 Siddharth Kumar Singh CSE
33. UG201110035 Siddharth Maheshwari CSE
34. UG201110036 Sonu Mehta CSE
35. UG201110037 Syed Navaid Ahmad CSE
36. UG201110038 Yash Kumar Sonthalia CSE
37. UG201110039 Yeravothula Rohith CSE
38. UG201110040 Gatla Rajasekhar Reddy CSE
39. UG201110041 Abhishek Bassan CSE
40. UG201110042 Arvind Pandey CSE
41. UG201110043 Smriti Jain CSE
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2011

42. UG201110044 Wins Goyal CSE
43. UG201111002 Abhishek Pilania EE
44. UG201111003 Anshul Narayan Bhatt EE
45. UG201111004 Anshul Singh Parihar EE
46. UG201111005 Anurag Dharmawat EE
47. UG201111006 Atul Agarwal EE
48. UG201111007 Battula Sasi Kaushik EE
49. UG201111008 Brajesh Kumar EE
50. UG201111009 Bussa Pavan Kumar EE
51. UG201111010 Damacharla Sandeep EE
52. UG201111011 Devendra Kumar Jangid EE
53. UG201111012 Gajarla Ravi Teja EE
54. UG201111014 Guneet Singh Mehta EE
55. UG201111015 Hari Om Meena EE
56. UG201111016 Harshit Dixit EE
57. UG201111017 Hem Singh Meena EE
58. UG201111018 Hemant Kumar Biloniya EE
59. UG201111019 Kadoo Amruta Anil EE
60. UG201111020 Kotha Sudheer EE
61. UG201111021 Koyinni Deekshitha EE
62. UG201111022 Krishna Kumar Damolia EE
63. UG201111023 Kuldeep Singh Rathore EE
64. UG201111024 Kumar Saurav EE
65. UG201111025 Lalithkumar P. EE
66. UG201111026 Prashant Mittal EE
67. UG201111027 Rahul Rathore EE
68. UG201111028 Rangaraju Yashomani Srikar EE
69. UG201111029 Ravindra Kumar Sharma EE
70. UG201111030 Ravyansh Kumar EE
71. UG201111031 Sanchit Kumar Singh EE
72. UG201111032 Satyendra Kumar Gautam EE
73. UG201111033 Shivalika Agarwal EE
74. UG201111034 Shivam Punia EE
75. UG201111035 Sudhanshu Singh EE
76. UG201111036 Sunil Kumar EE
77. UG201111037 Vadakattu Sreeja EE
78. UG201111038 Vineet Kumar EE
79. UG201111039 Voruganti Surya Teja EE
80. UG201111041 Alvin Roy Aliath EE
81. UG201111042 Aniruddh Ramrakhyani EE
82. UG201111043 Ashutosh Mittal EE
83. UG201111044 Dhiraj Bhatt EE
84. UG201111045 Heena Masuriya EE

85. UG201112002 Ankit Aggarwal ME
86. UG201112004 Ashutosh Vishwakarma ME
87. UG201112005 Atishay Jain ME
88. UG201112006 C. Sri Harsha ME
89. UG201112007 Chetan Regar ME
90. UG201112008 Chilakamarri Satya Ranga Prasanth ME
91. UG201112009 Deep Kumar ME
92. UG201112010 Deshraj Meena ME
93. UG201112011 Devesh Singh ME
94. UG201112012 Dheeraj ME
95. UG201112013 Gajanand Saini ME
96. UG201112014 Gautam Kumar ME
97. UG201112015 Harsh Kumar Karmveer ME
98. UG201112016 Harshit Srivastava ME
99. UG201112017 Himanshu Sahu ME
100. UG201112018 Kishan Sharma ME
101. UG201112019 Kothapally Mounish ME
102. UG201112020 Kunal Vishnu Paraswani ME
103. UG201112021 Kundan Singh Meena ME
104. UG201112022 Maninder Singh ME
105. UG201112023 Manish Sachdeva ME
106. UG201112024 Mohit Dadhich ME
107. UG201112025 Mukul Kumar Gupta ME
108. UG201112026 Navneet Kumar Yadav ME
109. UG201112027 Neeraj Kumar ME
110. UG201112028 Rahul Sathya Babu ME
111. UG201112029 Sagar Anand Ramgare ME
112. UG201112030 Sandeep Shankarrao Hatte ME
113. UG201112031 Sanket Kinage ME
114. UG201112032 Shravan Mishra ME
115. UG201112033 Siddee Meena ME
116. UG201112036 Tagde Prateek Prakash ME
117. UG201112037 Vaidya Kedar Sanjay ME
118. UG201112038 Vikash ME
119. UG201113002 Abhishek Singh SS
120. UG201113003 Ajay Sunarthi SS
121. UG201113004 Akhil Arora SS
122. UG201113006 Ankit Singh SS
123. UG201113007 Arpit Agarwal SS
124. UG201113008 Atharv S. Ghaisas SS
125. UG201113010 Desidi Siva Prakash SS
126. UG201113012 Divya Grover SS
127. UG201113013 Gurjot Singh SS

128. UG201113014 Himanshu Shukla SS
129. UG201113015 Jaswant SS
130. UG201113016 Jitendra Kumar Meena SS
131. UG201113017 Kakkirala Anuroop SS
132. UG201113018 Kowlagi Sudhendra Narayan SS
133. UG201113019 Krati Saxena SS
134. UG201113020 Kusum Lata Meena SS
136. UG201113023 Manthani Tejaswi SS
137. UG201113024 Mohamed Rehan Mohamed Sagheer SS
138. UG201113025 Neelesh Dwivedi SS
139. UG201113026 Neha Singh Chauhan SS
140. UG201113027 P. Vivek SS
141. UG201113028 Pratik Kumar SS
142. UG201113029 Rahul Kumar SS
143. UG201113030 Raj Rohit Jalem SS
144. UG201113032 Rishabh Jain SS
145. UG201113033 Sankha Narayan Guria SS
146. UG201113036 Shinde Sahil Anil SS
147. UG201113037 Tavish Garg SS
148. UG201113039 Vinnakota Sai Rakshit SS

Sl. No. Roll No. Name Branch
1. UG201210001 Abhishek Kumar CSE
2. UG201210002 Aditya Yadav CSE
3. UG201210003 Akash Mishra CSE
4. UG201210004 Akshit Jain CSE
5. UG201210005 Aseem Raj Baranwal CSE
6. UG201210006 Asheet Kumar CSE
7. UG201210007 Attanti Madhurya CSE
8. UG201210008 Bandela Prathyusha CSE
9. UG201210009 Basamgari Harika CSE
10. UG201210010 Bundele Manas Mahesh CSE
11. UG201210011 Dhake Akash Hiraman CSE
12. UG201210012 Dinesh Kumar Jangra CSE
13. UG201210013 Dinesh Kumar Saini CSE
14. UG201210014 Gaurav Shastri CSE
15. UG201210015 Gondi Dedeepya Sai CSE
16. UG201210016 Gorla Uhasree CSE
17. UG201210017 Jinank Jain CSE
18. UG201210018 Kalshetti Pratik Mallinath CSE
19. UG201210019 Kunal Dadheech CSE
20. UG201210020 Mala Muthyalappa CSE
21. UG201210021 Manish Jaiswal CSE
22. UG201210022 N. K. Kiran CSE
23. UG201210023 Pankaj Kumar CSE
24. UG201210024 Pawan Kumar Saini CSE
25. UG201210025 Rajesh Kumar Meena CSE
26. UG201210026 Rishabh Garg CSE
27. UG201210028 Ritesh Kumar CSE
28. UG201210029 Rohan Khanna CSE
29. UG201210030 Sachin Grover CSE
30. UG201210031 Samarth Kumar Goel CSE
31. UG201210032 Shah Akshat Mukeshkumar CSE
32. UG201210033 Shivam Kumar Garg CSE
33. UG201210034 Siddharth Talesra CSE
34. UG201210035 Sonika Agrawal CSE
35. UG201210036 Sunil Kumar CSE
36. UG201210037 Vaibhav Singh Khokhar CSE
37. UG201210038 Vijendra Sukariya CSE
38. UG201210039 Vikas Meena CSE
39. UG201210040 Ankit Jain CSE
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2012

40. UG201211001 Abhishek Thepra EE
41. UG201211002 Ajay Charan EE
42. UG201211003 Akarsh Rastogi EE
43. UG201211004 Akshay Arya EE
44. UG201211006 Anubhuti Mittal EE
45. UG201211007 Ashwani Kumar EE
46. UG201211008 Ashwani Nainawat EE
47. UG201211009 Deepak Verma EE
48. UG201211010 Devabattini Sriharsha EE
49. UG201211011 Dharm Raj Meena EE
50. UG201211012 Dheeraj P. EE
51. UG201211013 Dinesh Gurjar EE
52. UG201211014 Farazuddin Ansari EE
53. UG201211015 Ghanshyam EE
54. UG201211016 Hitesh Kumar Singhal EE
55. UG201211017 K. V. Vikas Reddy EE
56. UG201211018 Lalit Mirdha EE
57. UG201211019 Mamta Dhaka EE
58. UG201211020 Mukesh Kumar EE
59. UG201211021 Nisha Agrawal EE
60. UG201211022 Nishit Umesh Parekh EE
61. UG201211023 Pawan Kumar Verma EE
62. UG201211024 Piyush Dugar EE
63. UG201211025 Prakash Gehlot EE
64. UG201211027 Rajat EE
65. UG201211028 Rajat R Rahatgaonkar EE
66. UG201211029 Rajnesh Meena EE
67. UG201211030 Sanchit Gupta EE
68. UG201211031 Sanket Jain EE
69. UG201211032 Santosh Kumar Meena EE
70. UG201211033 Saurav Kumar EE
71. UG201211034 Sharath Kuntanhal EE
72. UG201211035 Shivam Upadhyaya EE
73. UG201211036 Shrish Lal Bhatnagar EE
74. UG201211037 Sriramadasu Ashok Kumar EE
75. UG201211038 Sunil Saran EE
76. UG201211039 Tarun Vatwani EE
77. UG201211040 Upendra Kumar Nagar EE
78. UG201211041 Vinay Shankar Saxena EE
79. UG201211042 Antos C. Varghese EE
80. UG201211043 Himanshu Takwani EE

81. UG201212001 Aditya Khandelwal ME
82. UG201212002 Ajay Kumar Jagetiya ME
83. UG201212003 Anjali Bansiwal ME
84. UG201212005 Ashish Kumar ME
85. UG201212006 Ashish Kumar ME
86. UG201212007 Atul Dubey ME
87. UG201212008 Ayush Bhadauria ME
88. UG201212009 B. V. Kishore ME
89. UG201212010 Balla Raghavendar Goud ME
90. UG201212011 Boddupalli Nibodh ME
91. UG201212012 Chamarthy Kameswara Shiva Dinesh ME
92. UG201212013 Chetan Gupta ME
93. UG201212014 Daman ME
94. UG201212015 Dilkhush Meena ME
95. UG201212017 Himanshu Yadav ME
96. UG201212018 Kamlesh Aseri ME
97. UG201212019 Kanak Shrivastava ME
98. UG201212020 Manish Soni ME
99. UG201212021 N. Vinaykumar Reddy ME
100. UG201212022 Navneet Mittal ME
101. UG201212023 Pavan Kumar Shakya ME
102. UG201212024 Sachin Yadav ME
103. UG201212025 Sandeep Kumar Meena ME
104. UG201212026 Saurabh Jain ME
105. UG201212027 Saurabh Pandey ME
106. UG201212028 Shah Jigar Deepak ME
107. UG201212030 Shreyas Srivastava ME
108. UG201212031 Shubham Gupta ME
109. UG201212032 Snigdhadeep Moitra ME
110. UG201212033 Sonu Siba Bara ME
111. UG201212034 Surendra Pal Singh ME
112. UG201212035 Tapesh Kumar Mourya ME
113. UG201212036 Thani Aswanth ME
114. UG201212037 Vaibhav Gupta ME
115. UG201212038 Varun Suryan ME
116. UG201212039 Vikash Kumar Goenka ME
117. UG201212040 Vishal Kumar ME
118. UG201212041 Anshuman Singh ME
119. UG201212042 Kirti Vardhan Rathore ME
120. UG201213002 Anmol SS
121. UG201213005 Divya Nagar SS

122. UG201213006 Gaurav Choudhary SS
123. UG201213007 Gourab Kumar Patro SS
124. UG201213008 Hari Om Meena SS
125. UG201213013 Kota V. Aakash SS
126. UG201213014 Kshitij Soni SS
127. UG201213016 Mahendra Kachhawa SS
128. UG201213018 Manish Malhotra SS
129. UG201213019 Narender Kumar SS
130. UG201213020 Paladugu Venkata Karteek SS
131. UG201213021 Palash Jain SS
132. UG201213022 Parag Rahangdale SS
133. UG201213023 Pise Indraneel Rajnish SS
134. UG201213024 Pragati Nagar SS
135. UG201213025 Prasoon SS
136. UG201213026 Priyanka Raju Masne SS
137. UG201213027 Purvi Tiwari SS
138. UG201213028 Raghunath Meena SS
139. UG201213029 Ravi Kumar SS
140. UG201213031 Rochika SS
141. UG201213033 Sharwan Songara SS
142. UG201213034 Shivam Choudhary SS
143. UG201213035 Shreshtha Garg SS
144. UG201213036 Sunil Suthar SS
145. UG201213037 Vibhav Sharma SS

Sl. No. Roll No Name Branch
1. UG201310001 Aakash Asija CSE
2. UG201310002 Aayush Sharda CSE
3. UG201310003 Abhay Kumar Singh CSE
4. UG201310004 Aman CSE
5. UG201310005 Amit Jain CSE
6. UG201310006 Anjali Malav CSE
7. UG201310007 Archit Agrawal CSE
8. UG201310008 Arnav Chopra CSE
9. UG201310009 Arnav Jindal CSE
10. UG201310010 Avan Jayendra Rathod CSE
11. UG201310011 Bharti CSE
12. UG201310012 Bharti Arya CSE
13. UG201310013 Dishant Goyal CSE
14. UG201310014 Hemant Pratap Singh CSE
15. UG201310015 Kartik Singh CSE
16. UG201310016 Komanduri Sai Raghava CSE
17. UG201310017 Kushagra Surana CSE
18. UG201310018 Mahendra Kumar Jat CSE
19. UG201310019 Makarand Milind Gomashe CSE
20. UG201310020 Muttineni Navya CSE
21. UG201310021 Nikhil Jeevansingh Taji CSE
22. UG201310022 Nithin V. CSE
23. UG201310023 Piyush Yadav CSE
24. UG201310024 Priyank Arya CSE
25. UG201310025 Rajkumar Meena CSE
26. UG201310026 Ramkesh Meena CSE
27. UG201310027 Ravi Prakash Gupta CSE
28. UG201310028 Ravindra Kumar Saini CSE
29. UG201310029 Riteek Srivastav CSE
30. UG201310030 Shiv Bhagwan CSE
31. UG201310031 Shiv Kumar Sen CSE
32. UG201310032 Shiv Mohan CSE
33. UG201310033 Shubham Saxena CSE
34. UG201310035 Sourav Khoso CSE
35. UG201310036 Suresh Gehlot CSE
36. UG201310037 Tapan Bhatnagar CSE
37. UG201310038 Upendra Singh Chauhan CSE
38. UG201310039 Vaghela Rajan Arvindkumar CSE
39. UG201310040 Vaibhav Paliwal CSE
40. UG201310041 Vivek Lata CSE
41. UG201311001 Abhishek Agrawal EE
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2013

42. UG201311002 Abhishek Jaju EE
43. UG201311003 Abhishek Kumar Yadav EE
44. UG201311004 Amit Kumar EE
45. UG201311005 Anirudh Singh Shaktawat EE
46. UG201311006 Ankit Garg EE
47. UG201311007 Anshul Agarwal EE
48. UG201311008 Anshul Yadav EE
49. UG201311009 Ashok Kumar EE
50. UG201311010 Ashutosh Gupta EE
51. UG201311011 Ashutosh Vaishnav EE
52. UG201311012 Bhabhuta Ram EE
53. UG201311013 Dinesh Kumar Danwa EE
54. UG201311014 Dipender Singh Ridmalot EE
55. UG201311015 Ekant Kumar EE
56. UG201311016 Gurpinder Singh EE
57. UG201311017 Hede Tejan Rohit EE
58. UG201311018 Hemant Meena EE
59. UG201311019 Kanika Mahajan EE
60. UG201311020 Khushbu Saxena EE
61. UG201311021 Kshitij Sandeep Minocha EE
62. UG201311022 Mohit Gupta EE
63. UG201311023 Niranjan Sanodia EE
64. UG201311024 Paduru Kandarpa Sai EE
65. UG201311025 Prakhar Gupta EE
66. UG201311026 Rahul Jain EE
67. UG201311027 Rajendra Kumar Yadav EE
68. UG201311028 Ramdev Bhichar EE
69. UG201311029 Rishikesh Meena EE
70. UG201311030 Shraddha Garg EE
71. UG201311031 Siddhant Jain EE
72. UG201311032 Sisodiya Vrushali EE
73. UG201311033 Sneha Gupta EE
74. UG201311034 Sumit Pegwal EE
75. UG201311035 Sushant Gautam EE
76. UG201311036 Syed Afshan Ali EE
77. UG201311037 Talloju Jawahar EE
78. UG201311038 Tiloka Ram EE
79. UG201311039 V. Ashwin EE
80. UG201311040 Vaibhav Sharma EE
81. UG201312001 Aditya Saxena ME
82. UG201312002 Akhil Mehta ME
83. UG201312003 Amit Kumar ME
84. UG201312004 Ankit Raipuria ME
85. UG201312005 Arpit Kumar Gahlot ME

86. UG201312006 Ayush Raina ME
87. UG201312007 Balveer Danga ME
88. UG201312008 Bhaskarjyoti Barman ME
89. UG201312009 Dheeraj Kumar Sisodiya ME
90. UG201312010 Dron Airon ME
91. UG201312011 Hardik Jain ME
92. UG201312012 Harsh Vardhan Shrivastava ME
93. UG201312013 Himanshu Agrawal ME
94. UG201312014 Himanshu Kumar Singh ME
95. UG201312015 Himanshu Sharma ME
96. UG201312016 K. Lakshmi Phalguni ME
97. UG201312017 Kanuganti Vamshi ME
98. UG201312018 Lakshaya Bhatt ME
99. UG201312019 Lakshman Kumar ME
100. UG201312020 Lokesh Swami ME
101. UG201312021 Manish Rajendra Jadhav ME
102. UG201312022 Mayank Gupta ME
103. UG201312023 Mohammed Firoz ME
104. UG201312024 Mohit Agarwal ME
105. UG201312025 Patel Harsh Bhupendrabhai ME
106. UG201312026 Pradyuman Meena ME
107. UG201312027 Prakhar Srivastava ME
108. UG201312028 Pushpendra Dhurwe ME
109. UG201312029 Pushpendra Mishra ME
110. UG201312030 Rohan Kumar ME
111. UG201312031 Rohit Singh ME
112. UG201312032 Sachin ME
113. UG201312033 Shubham Shaurya ME
114. UG201312034 Subham Teji ME
115. UG201312035 Vaghela Nirav Jitendrakumar ME
116. UG201312036 Vaibhav Jain ME
117. UG201312037 Vikas Kumar ME
118. UG201312038 Vikrant Arora ME
119. UG201312039 Viraat Srivastava ME
120. UG201313002 Aman Ajmera SS
121. UG201313003 Anirudh Vyas SS
122. UG201313004 Arvind Saini SS
123. UG201313005 Ayush Bhaskar SS
124. UG201313006 Darapaneni Chandana SS
125. UG201313007 Deepika Jalli SS
126. UG201313008 Deepshi Garg SS
127. UG201313010 Gaikwad Sangram Dasharath SS
128. UG201313011 Gourav Singh SS
129. UG201313013 Jayant Carpenter SS

130. UG201313014 Jayant V. Khapre SS
131. UG201313015 Joshi Achyut Sanjay SS
132. UG201313016 Lingala Prasantha Kumar SS
133. UG201313017 Mandeep SS
134. UG201313018 Naresh Kumar Prajapati SS
135. UG201313019 P Manisha SS
136. UG201313020 Pankaj Panwar SS
137. UG201313021 Pankaj Yadav SS
138. UG201313023 Perla Sukesh SS
139. UG201313024 Pinkesh Kumar SS
140. UG201313025 Prabhash Jain SS
141. UG201313026 Prakhar Mathur SS
142. UG201313027 Pramod Kumar SS
143. UG201313028 Prashant Kumar SS
144. UG201313029 Pulavarthy Anirudh SS
145. UG201313030 Rohil Surana SS
146. UG201313031 Rohit Kumar SS
147. UG201313032 Sangepu Ashrith SS
148. UG201313033 Saroj Prasad Chhatoi SS
149. UG201313034 Sheela Meena SS
150. UG201313035 Shipra Jain SS
151. UG201313036 Shubham Singh SS
152. UG201313037 Tarun Devireddy SS
153. UG201313038 Vishal Kumar SS
154. UG201314001 Abhishek Thombre BISS
155. UG201314002 Aditya Choudhary BISS
156. UG201314003 Ajay Kumar Kumawat BISS
157. UG201314004 Arnav Mishra BISS
158. UG201314005 Chandresh Kumar BISS
159. UG201314006 Dhanajit Brahma BISS
160. UG201314007 Himanshu Sikaria BISS
161. UG201314008 Jalaj Sharma BISS
162. UG201314010 Kaushtubh Kumar BISS
163. UG201314011 Kuldeep Meena BISS
164. UG201314012 Nisha Kumari BISS
165. UG201314013 Pranjal Singh BISS
166. UG201314014 Rakesh Yadav BISS
167. UG201314015 Sharath Challapalli BISS
168. UG201314017 Shrey Maheshwari BISS
169. UG201314018 Ujjwal Anand BISS

Sl. No. Roll No Name Branch
1. B14CS001 Abhimanyu Singh Gaur CSE
2. B14CS002 Abhinav Rai CSE
3. B14CS003 Ajeet Goyal CSE
4. B14CS004 Ajeet Ujjwal CSE
5. B14CS005 Ankita Muzalda CSE
7. B14CS007 Anurag Sanyal CSE
8. B14CS008 Archil Kumar Srivastava CSE
9. B14CS009 Ashish Sahu CSE
10. B14CS010 Ayush Agrawal CSE
11. B14CS011 B Sree Siddharth CSE
12. B14CS012 Bharat Singh CSE
13. B14CS013 Chaudhari Akshay Gajanan CSE
14. B14CS014 Daval Pargal CSE
15. B14CS015 Dhruv Sharma CSE
16. B14CS016 Edula Hari Hara Reddy CSE
17. B14CS017 Ganesh Bhimrao Patil CSE
18. B14CS018 Garimella Sravan CSE
19. B14CS019 Gaurav Kamal CSE
20. B14CS020 Gutapu Raj Kumar CSE
21. B14CS021 Hitesh Hingorani CSE
22. B14CS022 Kommuru Vinay Kumar CSE
23. B14CS023 Mahendra Meena CSE
24. B14CS024 Manish Goyal CSE
25. B14CS025 Pranav Arora CSE
26. B14CS026 Pushpinder CSE
27. B14CS027 Rinku Kumar Meena CSE
28. B14CS028 Rishabh Shukla CSE
29. B14CS029 Robin Gaur CSE
30. B14CS030 Rohit Paliwal CSE
31. B14CS031 Sahil Dhiman CSE
32. B14CS032 Sandeep Charan CSE
33. B14CS033 Rohan Govind Saraf CSE
34. B14CS034 Saurav Suman CSE
35. B14CS035 Shubham Jain CSE
36. B14CS036 Snehal Azad CSE
37. B14CS037 Sunil Choudhary CSE
38. B14CS039 Varun Kumar CSE
39. B14CS040 Vijay Kumar Paliwal CSE
40. B14EE001 Abhishek Mandwale EE
41. B14EE002 Abhishek Meena EE
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2014

42. B14EE003 Akshat Shrivastava EE
43. B14EE004 Anand Kumar EE
44. B14EE005 Ankush Garg EE
45. B14EE006 Anusha Gupta EE
46. B14EE007 Archit Sharma EE
47. B14EE009 Dara Shanmukha Sai Sanjay Gupta EE
48. B14EE010 Deepanshu Bhojak EE
49. B14EE011 Guntuku Deepak EE
50. B14EE012 Himanshu Verma EE
51. B14EE013 Jaiswal Ronak Nilesh EE
52. B14EE014 Jay Bhavin Sheth EE
53. B14EE015 Kanika Jakhar EE
54. B14EE016 Kaviti Sarath Kalyan EE
55. B14EE017 Kumari Saumya EE
56. B14EE018 Mahak Jain EE
57. B14EE020 Mohit Mehta EE
58. B14EE021 Naveen Kumar Chittoriya EE
59. B14EE022 Parmar Sunny Mukeshkumar EE
60. B14EE023 Piyush Sharma EE
61. B14EE024 Rahul Negi EE
62. B14EE025 Ramesh Kumar EE
63. B14EE026 Ravindra Parihar EE
64. B14EE027 Rishabh Bhardwaj EE
65. B14EE028 Ritu Singh EE
66. B14EE029 Sachin Mandowara EE
67. B14EE030 Shah Neelkumar Sureshkumar EE
68. B14EE031 Shivani Meena EE
69. B14EE032 Shounak Kulkarni EE
70. B14EE033 Sudhir Pratap Yadav EE
71. B14EE034 Thara Giriraj Prasad EE
72. B14EE035 Tripti Meena EE
73. B14EE036 Vamsi Prudhvi Chintaguntala EE
74. B14EE037 Vanam Bhanu Sai Simha EE
75. B14EE038 Vidit Jain EE
76. B14EE039 Vivek EE
77. B14EE040 Yasharth Sahu EE
78. B14ME001 Abhishek Sharma ME
79. B14ME003 Akhil Bindal ME
80. B14ME004 Akshay Vinay Bapat ME
82. B14ME006 Anandhu Suresh ME
83. B14ME007 Bandi Sai Mukesh ME
84. B14ME008 Boghara Pruthvi Rameshbhai ME
85. B14ME010 Jerry Mathew Oommen ME

86. B14ME011 Kartik Venkata Ramachandruni ME
87. B14ME012 Katakam Harsha Sai Manohar ME
88. B14ME013 Kuldeep Meena ME
89. B14ME014 Madhvendra Tiwari ME
90. B14ME015 Manoj Malviya ME
91. B14ME016 Mohammad Sharey ME
92. B14ME017 Mohit Vijay ME
93. B14ME019 Parella Ravi Teja ME
94. B14ME020 Patel Pranav Nareshbhai ME
95. B14ME021 Pawan Kumar ME
96. B14ME022 Pothula Krishna Teja ME
97. B14ME023 Rachit ME
98. B14ME024 Rahul Chanania ME
99. B14ME025 Rajendra Manda ME
100. B14ME026 Rishabh Badodia ME
101. B14ME027 Santhoju Shiva ME
102. B14ME028 Santhosh M ME
103. B14ME030 Shinde Shubham Bhaskar ME
104. B14ME031 Shivam Jaiswal ME
105. B14ME032 Shivam Srivastava ME
106. B14ME034 Shubham Kaushal ME
107. B14ME035 Sutariya Monark ME
108. B14ME036 Suyog Bodhankar ME
109. B14ME037 Udit Singh Parihar ME
110. B14ME038 Uma Shankar Sharma ME
111. B14ME039 Vanditi Mathur ME
112. B14ME040 Vedant Bhuyar ME
113. B14SS002 Angad Singh Sabherwal SS
114. B14SS003 B Sai Chaitanya SS
115. B14SS006 Devanshu Bhavin Kathrecha SS
116. B14SS007 K Tejas Reddy SS
117. B14SS008 Katragadda Karthik SS
118. B14SS009 Mansi Mittal SS
119. B14SS011 Pranali Pawar SS
120. B14SS013 Raj Prajapat SS
121. B14SS017 Shreyansh Chhajer SS
122. B14SS018 Tejas Gattani SS
123. B14SS019 Vaibhav Baban Ganer SS
124. B14SS020 Yashwant Kumar Meena SS
125. B14BS005 Dinesh Kumar Maurya BISS
126. B14BS006 Divya Naval BISS
127. B14BS009 Kumar Venkateshwar BISS
128. B14BS011 Mahesh BISS
129. B14BS014 Sahil Bhatia BISS

130. B14BS015 Shubham Talbar BISS
131. B14BS016 Vishal Verma BISS

FINANCIAL POSITION
The MHRD has released a sum of Rs. 9900.00 Lakhs as Grant-in-Aid under Normal
Plan Head and Rs. 1087.04 Lakh as opening balance as on 01-04-2014. The internal income of 
the Institute was Rs. 991.79 Lakh. The total Plan expenditure during the year was Rs. 
10110.83 Lakh (Recurring Rs. 2855.05 Lakh and Non-Recurring Rs. 7255.78 Lakh).

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Old Residency Road, Ratanada, Jodhpur 342011
Annual Report 
2014-15