SOURCE_PDF: 46f8c8e9714d_AR2015-16_20_English_.pdf

Annual Report
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Annual Report
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Old Residency Road, Ratanada
Jodhpur 342011

Editorial Board
Deepakkumar M. Fulwani, Coordinator (Faculty)
Atul Kumar, Coordinator (Academics)
V. Narayanan, Coordinator (R&D)
V. Hari Narayanan, Coordinator (Students)
Amardeep Sharma, Deputy Registrar (Planning)
Kshema Prakash, Deputy Librarian Editor
Kshema Prakash, Deputy Librarian
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Old Residency Road, Ratanada
Jodhpur 342011
eMail: publications@iitj.ac.in
www.iitj.ac.in
Copyright © 2016, Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur (www.iitj.ac.in). All rights reserved.

Preface i
Vision & Mission ii
Financial Position 130
Contents
Board of Governors 
2
Finance Committee 
3
Senate 
4
Building and Works Committee 
5
Key Functionaries 
6
Departments and Associated Faculty Members 
8
Staff Members 
23
Collaborations with Academia 
26
Collaborations with Industry 
28
R & D Projects 
33
Patents & Publications 
38
Awards & Recognitions 
48
Permanent Campus 
62
Computer Center 
64
Library 
65
Laboratories 
68
Health Center 
87
Sports Facilities 
88
SC/ST Cell 
88
Women Cell 
89
Student Fests & Events 
97
Student Accolades 
102
Counselling Service 
105
Student Placement Cell 
107
Alumni Relations 
109
Registered Students in IIT Jodhpur 
110

Preface
Into the seventh year of its existence, the Institute started five new
academic programs, three at the M.Sc. level in Chemistry, Mathematics and 
Physics, and two at the M.Tech. level in Electrical Engineering and Mechanical 
Engineering. Also, during 2015-16, the construction of the Permanent Campus of 
IIT Jodhpur has moved forward with speed, even though the pace could have 
been faster... Construction of Phase I buildings is expected to be completed by 
September 2016, and the migration to the Permanent Campus is expected to 
happen during 9-23 October 2016.
During 2015-16, a major step taken forward by the Institute was the
launching of the Industry Immersion Program. In the inaugural edition, 30 
Students and 5 Faculty Members spent the summer in the leading technology 
industries of the country – Mahindra & Mahindra Limited, Larsen & Toubro Limited, 
Tata Motors Limited, TVS Motor Company Limited, and Tata Power Company Limited, 
as the first of the 3-summer immersion of this set of Students and Faculty 
Members.
Also, another special beginning made by IIT Jodhpur was the first
successful defence of Ph.D. thesis; four students completed their requirements. 
The number of Ph.D. Students increased from 70 during 2013-14 to 139 during 
2015-16. The research profile of the Institute has improved from 32 sponsored 
research projects during 2014-15 to 47 during 2015-16, and from 78 publications 
during 2014-15 to 110 during 2015-16. 2 Patents were filed by the Faculty 
Members during 2015-16. In particular, in September 2015, IIT Jodhpur joined 
five established IITs as Co-Investigators of the DBT-Pan IIT Center for Bioenergy.
The Institute welcomed 8 new Faculty Members and 2 new Staff Members
into the IIT Jodhpur community, to build a strong career here. 4 GIAN Courses 
were organized by the Faculty Members in Chemistry, Mechanical Engineering and 
Electrical Engineering.
C. V. R. Murty

The Institute shall
(1) Promote technology thought and action, and 
(2) Prepare needed technical human resources to meet the technology challenges of the
The Institute shall
(1) Create a vibrant technology institute that incubates and promotes learning, research,
invention and eventually innovation; and
(2) Prepare each primary stakeholder towards their dharma, while continuing to adhere
to its core values:
(a) Prepare competent Technology Graduates ready to meet Grand Challenges of
(b) Train active functionaries of a process driven professional institute;
(c) Facilitate builders of an internationally competitive academic institute; and
(d) Provide technology innovation as a force to as many industries as possible for
economic value creation.
The Institute stands for a set of core values, wherein each member of the IIT Jodhpur
community shall 
(1) Uphold highest levels of human integrity and dignity; 
(2) Not take unfair advantage of any stakeholder of the Institute; 
(3) Work towards building the most admired technology Institute furthering interests of
Students, Industries and Society;
(4) Commit to economic development of India through technological thought and
(5) Be ethical, sincere and open in all transactions; and 
(6) Be continually responsible for upholding utmost confidentiality of all information
and circumstances arising out of any interaction.

ORGANIZATION
Organizational Structure
Under the broad umbrella of IIT Council, IIT Jodhpur functions under the
guidance of the following statutory bodies. 
(1) Board of Governors; 
(2) Finance Committee; 
(3) Senate; and 
(4) Buildings & Works Committee.
Member details of these Statutory Bodies are given in the pages to follow.

BOARD OF GOVERNORS
Chairman
1. Professor Goverdhan Mehta (FNA, FRS)
Department of Organic Chemistry 
University of Hyderabad 
Central University PO 
Hyderabad 500046
2. Director (Ex-officio)
Professor C. V. R. Murty 
Director 
IIT Jodhpur 
Old Residency Road, Ratanada, 
Jodhpur 342011
Member-Nominees of the IIT Council
1. Professor Pankaj Chandra
Former Director 
Indian Institute of Management 
Bangalore 560076
2. Professor N. S. Vyas
Chairman, Technology Mission for Indian Railways 
Ministry of Railways 
Government of India 
New Delhi 110001
3. Mr. Kiran Karnik
Former President, NASSCOM 
S-315 Panchsheel Park 
New Delhi 110017
4. Mr. D. R. Mehta
Founder & Chief Patron 
Bhagwan Mahaveer Viklang Sahayata Samiti 
13A-Gurunanak Path 
Main Malviya Nagar 
Jaipur 302017
State Government Nominee
1. Principal Secretary
Higher & Technical Education
Main Building Secretariat
Government of Rajasthan
Jaipur 302005

FINANCE COMMITTEE
Chairman
1. Professor Goverdhan Mehta, FNA, FRS
Department of Organic Chemistry 
University of Hyderabad 
Central University PO 
Hyderabad 500046
Members
1. Professor C. V. R. Murty
Director 
IIT Jodhpur 
Old Residency Road, Ratanada 
Jodhpur 342011
2. Additional Secretary (Technical Education)
Department of Higher Education 
Ministry of Human Resources and Development 
Government of India 
Shastri Bhawan 
New Delhi 110001
3. Financial Advisor
Department of Higher Education 
Ministry of Human Resources and Development 
Government of India 
Shastri Bhawan 
New Delhi 110001
4. Mr. G. S. Sood, IDAS
House No. 1090 
Sector 29 
Faridabad 121008
5. CA S. S. Bhandari
Director, Non-Executive Director on the Board 
Bank of Baroda 
P-7, Tilak Marg, C-Scheme 
Jaipur 302005
6. Dr. Gaurav Harit
Assistant Professor 
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur 
Jodhpur 342011

SENATE
C. V. R. Murty Chairman
Pratap Bhanu Mehta Member (Nominee of Board of Governors)
H. P. Khincha Member (Nominee of Board of Governors) 
Sanjeev Misra Member (Nominee of Board of Governors)
Members
Coordinator (Faculty)
Coordinator (R&D)
Coordinator (Academics)
Coordinator (Students)
Head, Department of Biology
Head, Department of Chemistry
Head, Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Head, Department of Electrical Engineering
Head, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Head, Department of Mathematics
Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering
Head, Department of Physics
Chairman, Wardens Committee
Chairman, Library Committee
Laboratory In-Charge, Workshop

BUILDINGS AND WORKS COMMITTEE
Chairman
1. Professor C. V. R. Murty
Director 
IIT Jodhpur 
Old Residency Road, Ratanada, 
Jodhpur 342011
Members
1. Ms. Usha Kasana
Chief Architect 
Public Works Department 
Government of Rajasthan 
Jacob Road, Civil Lines 
Jaipur 302006
2. Mr. R. K. Govil
Additional Director General Civil (Retd.), CPWD 
26, Ankur Apartments 
7, I.P. Extension 
Delhi 110092
3. Mr. V. K. Bansal
Chief Engineer Electrical (Retd.), CPWD 
721 Sky Lark Apartment, 
Sector-6, Plot No.35, Dwarka 
New Delhi 110075
4. Dr. B. Ravindra
Associate Professor 
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur 
Jodhpur 342011

Key Functionaries
The Institute has organized its activities through various key functionaries, as
depicted in the organogram below.
Details of various key functionaries of the Institute are as follow.
C. V. R. Murty
Deepakkumar M. Fulwani Faculty
V. Narayanan Research & Development
Atul Kumar Academics
Hari Narayanan V. Students
Rahul Chhibber Laboratory In-Charge, Workshop
Venkata Ramana Badarla Computer Science & Engineering
Anil K. Tiwari Electrical Engineering
B. Ravindra Mechanical Engineering
Sushmita Jha Biology
Rakesh Kumar Sharma Chemistry
Kirankumar R. Hiremath Mathematics
Subhashish Banerjee Physics
Vidya Sarveswaran Humanities & Social Sciences
Sushmita Jha Biologically Inspired System Science
V. V. M. S. Chandramouli System Science

Prawal Sinha Faculty
Navratan Mal Bhandari Research & Development
Samanwita Pal Wardens Committee
P. Manikandan Student Placement Committee
Anil Kumar Tiwari Medical Services Committee
Satyajit Sahu Library Committee
V. V. M. Sarma Chandramouli Logistics Committee 
V. V. M. Sarma Chandramouli Scholarships and Prizes Committee
Anand Krishnan Plappally Alumni Relations Committee
Ankita Sharma Counselling Services Committee
Gaurav Harit Chief Vigilance Officer
Gaurav Bhatnagar Transparency Officer
Puneet Sharma Hindi Officer
Mahesh Kumar Green Initiative Officer
Satyajit Sahu Nodal Officer for OBC, PwD, and Minorities
Barun Pratiher Nodal Officer for SC and ST
Kshema Prakash Women Cell Officer
Amardeep Sharma Public Relations Officer 
Sanjeeb Mukherjee Infrastructure Engineer 
Amardeep Sharma Infrastructure Manager 
Amardeep Sharma Central Public Information Officer
Coordinator (Academics) Chairman
Members
Head, Department of Computer Science & Engineering 
Head, Department of Electrical Engineering 
Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering 
Head, Department of Biology 
Head, Department of Chemistry 
Head, Department of Mathematics 
Head, Department of Physics 
Head, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences 
Convener (Focus Group Biologically Inspired System Science) 
Convener (Focus Group System Science) 
Liaison Officer (SC/ST Cell)
Student Representatives
Secretary, ARA Society, Students Gymkhana 
Three Student Representatives from ARA Society, Students Gymkhana 
(one each from B.Tech., M.Tech. and Ph.D. Programs)

Departments and Associated Faculty Members
The Institute has organised its academic activities to be conducted through eight
Departments, and two Focus Groups. They are: 
 
I. Departments
1. Biology, 
2. Chemistry, 
3. Computer Science & Engineering, 
4. Electrical Engineering, 
5. Humanities & Social Sciences, 
6. Mathematics, 
7. Mechanical Engineering, and 
8. Physics
II. Focus Groups
1. Biologically Inspired System Science, and 
2. System Science.
Details of Departments and associated Faculty Members are given in the pages to

Name Research Areas
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY
The Department of Biology is the hub of biological sciences at IIT Jodhpur. The
mission of the Department is to gain excellence in education and research at the national 
and international levels. The Faculty Members at the Department of Biology span a wide 
range of biological disciplines from cellular and molecular neuroscience, biochemistry, 
physiology to environmental biotechnology.
The Department offers B.Tech. (Biologically Inspired System Science) and Ph.D.
Program with specialisation in Biology, and in Biologically Inspired System Science. The 
department offers a wide range of courses from foundational biology to advanced 
concepts in biological sciences from B.Tech. to Ph.D. level courses. With state-of-the-art 
centralized laboratories and research facilities, hands-on learning is emphasized.
Faculty Members and Students at the Department of Biology believe in
collaboration both within and outside the department to enhance research potential and 
productivity. Following are the Faculty Members associated with the department:
Sushmita Jha 
Head of Department
Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience, Cell and Molecular Physiology
Amit Kumar Mishra
Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience, Cell Cycle Regulation and Cancer
Karunakar Kar
Protein Biophysics, Amyloids and Collagens, Rationally Engineered 
Biomaterials
Meenu Chhabra
Biological Science & Bio-Engineering: Renewable Bioenergy Bioremediation
Academic Activities in the Department
A “Discussion Meeting on Technology in Life Sciences” was organized during 1-
3 August 2016 at IIT Jodhpur. The Institute invited colleagues from Industry, R&D 
Organisations and Academia, to help shape the role of IIT Jodhpur in so far as

Technology in Life Sciences is concerned. During this 3-day discussion meeting 12 
guests participated from outside the Institute, as detailed below.
1. Dipankar Nandi, Indian Institute of Science 
2. Biswajit Kundu, Indian Institute of Technology Delhi 
3. S. K. Khare, Indian Institute of Technology Delhi 
4. Shilajit Bhattacharya, All India Institute of Medical Sciences Jodhpur 
5. Surajit Ghatak, All India Institute of Medical Sciences Jodhpur 
6. Abhay Elhence, All India Institute of Medical Sciences Jodhpur 
7. Pradipta Bandopadhyay, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi 
8. Mukesh Jain, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi 
9. Parthosarothi Ray, IISER, Kolkata
via Video Conferencing 
10. Dulal Panda, Indian Institute of Technology Bombay 
11. Debashis Dash, CSIR-Institute of Genomics & Integrative Biology 
12. T. R. Sreekrishnan, IIT Delhi
Along with the Faculty Members from the Department of Biology, Faculty
colleagues from other Departments also participated in this 3-day discussion meeting. 
Many points emerged during the discussions, and curriculum was suggested for the 
proposed M.Tech. (Biosciences and Bioengineering) Program at IIT Jodhpur. Some of the 
salient closing thoughts were: 
(1) National challenges and gaps in pedagogy, infrastructure and curriculum on part of the
Institute, and competence (i.e., knowledge, skills and attitude) in graduating students, 
need to be assessed while moulding a new Department and degree programs at IIT 
Jodhpur.
(2) Wider discussion on the agenda of Technology in Life Sciences at IIT Jodhpur is
required with a larger stakeholder group, especially with those from Industry, to 
assess employability of students educated in IIT Jodhpur through the B.Tech., 
M.Tech. and Ph.D. Programs;
Faculty Members of the Department of Biology, IIT Jodhpur
with the invited guests
Ph.D. Students of the Department of Biology, IIT Jodhpur with
the invited guests

Name Research Areas
DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY
Chemistry at IIT Jodhpur is where Chemistry sees Technology. At IIT Jodhpur,
Chemistry embraces a distinctive locus in science and technology collaboration. The 
department is making technological contribution to new materials for energy solutions, 
catalysis and water. Fundamental understanding of chemical dynamics, biological 
phenomena, Nuclear Magnetic Resonance and Quantum Chemistry are growing in 
prominence. The vision of the Department of Chemistry is to strive to be acknowledged 
for excellence in teaching, research, and outreach. The following Faculty Members are 
associated with the department:
Rakesh Kumar Sharma 
Head of Department
Catalysis for Energy and Stereocontrol, Feedstock Chemistry, Fuel and 
Lubricants, Energy Storage and Water Treament Technology
Ananya Debnath
Theoretical and Computational Chemistry
Atul Kumar
Quantum Information Processing
Manikandan Paranjothy
Theoretical and Computational Chemistry, Chemical Reaction Dynamics
Ritu Gupta
Nanomaterials & Nanodevices for Water, Energy and Healthcare
Samanwita Pal
Solution and solid state NMR and NQR spectroscopy

Faculty Member Research Areas
DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE & ENGINEERING
The Department offers B.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering) and Ph.D.
Program with specialisation in Computer Science & Engineering. It has some state-of-
the-art laboratory and research facilities. 
 
Following are the Faculty Members associated with the department:
Venkata Ramana Badarla 
Head of Department
Wireless Networks, and Cloud Computing
Gaurav Harit
Image and Video Analysis
Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay
Computer Vision
Aritra Banik
Computational Geometry
The department also has an Adjunct Faculty Member, Professor Venkatesh
Raman from Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai.

Name Research Areas
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
The Department offers B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering), M.Tech. (Electrical
Engineering) and Ph.D. Program with specialisation in Electrical Engineering. It has 
some state-of-the-art laboratory and research facilities. 
 
The following Faculty Members are associated with the department:
Anil Kumar Tiwari 
Head of Department
Electrical Engineering: Image Processing, Video Processing, and Signal 
Processing application in Bio-Medical
Abdul Gafoor Shaik
Protection of various components of Power System, Protection of 
Distribution Network with DG penetration, Power Quality assessment 
and mitigation in Distribution Networks with Renewable Energy Source 
penetration
Arun Kumar Singh
Communication Theory, Wireless and Mobile Communications, Satellite 
based Navigation Systems, Spread Spectrum Systems
Deepakkumar M. Fulwani
Control and state estimation of uncertain systems, Power system, 
Control issues in wind energy conversion system
Mahesh Kumar
Group III-V quantum structures by MBE, Growth of thin films and 
nanostructures, Group III-nitride alloys for LEDs, HEMTs and photovoltaic 
applications, Inorganic-Inorganic hybrid structures with special attention 
to band gap engineering, Si and wide band gap semiconductors for 
MEMS, Micro and Nano device fabrications
Sandeep Kumar Yadav
Signal Processing, Condition Monitoring, Image Processing, Data 
Compression, Blind Source Separation, Artificial Neural Network

Shree Prakash Tiwari
Microelectronics 
& 
VLSI 
Technology, 
Microfabrication, 
Organic
Electronics, Device Physics and Characterization, New Device Structures
Suresh Gundapaneni
Semiconductor Device Physics, Integrated Circuit (IC) Technology, 
Flexible Electronics
The department also has a Scholar-in-Residence, Professor R. K. Shyama Sunder,
who is a Senior Professor and J. C. Bose National Fellow at Tata Institute of 
Fundamental Research, Mumbai.
Kota V. Murali, Chief Technologist, Semiconductor Research and Development
Center, IBM India, Bangalore is associated with the department as an Adjunct Faculty 
Member.

Name Research Areas
DEPARTMENT OF HUMANITIES AND SOCIAL SCIENCES
The Department of Humanities and Social Sciences operates from spaces that
give us an opportunity to act as an interface between empirical and experiential 
knowledge systems. Playing a significant role in the academic curriculum of the young 
engineers, we offer both core and elective courses at the Bachelors, Masters, and 
Doctoral levels. The ability to provide tools and skills for specific aims notwithstanding, 
the essence of Humanities and Social Sciences involves the sensitizing of individuals. 
Acting as facilitators, thus, we engage in meaningful interactions with students and help 
them witness, study, and understand the interplays among technology, society, and 
humanity. This task assumes even more significance in an educational context where the 
brightest young minds of India come together.
With Faculty Members who specialize in diverse disciplines (including
Philosophy, Economics, Psychology, and Literature) and with students from a spectrum 
of backgrounds, the Department provides an enriching platform -where technical 
education can be complemented with human and social understanding. Following are 
the faculty members associated with the department:
Vidya Sarveswaran 
Head of Department
English: Literature and Environment (Ecocriticism), Film and Literature, 
Literatures of the Global South, Regional Literatures in Translation, 
American Literature
Ankita Sharma
Psychology: Gerontology, Clinical and Positive Psychology
K. J. George
Philosophy: Applied Ethics, Ethics of Technology, Bioethics
Mainak Mazumdar
Economics: Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) and Pharmaceutical Industry, 
Productivity and Efficiency Analysis, Growth and Regional Development, 
Inequality Poverty and Social mobility

Rijo M. John
Economics: Health Economics, Health Policy, Applied Econometrics, 
Development Studies
Sreekumar Jayadevan
Philosophy: Philosophy of Science, Aesthetics of Design, Formal Logic, 
Philosophy of Technology
V. Hari Narayanan
Philosophy: Cognitive Studies, Evolutionary Theory, Analytic Philosophy and 
Mindfulness

Name Research Areas
DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICS
Mathematics, being the basis of many disciplines, is a subject that evolves with
time and creates new theories and models to solve challenging problems of today. Since 
its inception, the department has been taking a leading role in developing new methods 
and models that can be used in diverse areas of computer science, engineering and basic 
sciences. The department has faculty with research interests in the areas of Mathematical 
Physics, 
Scientific 
Computation, 
Numerical 
Analysis, 
Differential 
Equations,
Topological Dynamics, Low Dimensional Chaos, Dynamical Systems, Renormalization 
in Low-dimensional dynamics, Wavelet Analysis, Fractional Transform Theory, Image 
Processing, Financial Risk Analysis, and Categorical Data Analysis.
The department offers at undergraduate and postgraduate levels. It runs a four
year B.Tech. Program in System Science, and a Ph.D. Program with specialization in 
different areas of Mathematics. Following are the Faculty Members associated with the 
department:
Kirankumar R. Hiremath 
Head of Department
Theoretical, mathematical and computational aspects of wave-matter 
interactions
Prawal Sinha
Mathematical Modeling of Engineering and Bio-systems
Gaurav Bhatnagar
Wavelet Analysis, Fractional Transform Theory, Multimedia Security, Image 
Processing, Information Fusion
Puneet Sharma
Topological Dynamics, Low Dimensional Chaos
V. V. M. S. Chandramouli
Smooth Dynamical Systems, Renormalization of Unimodal maps and 
Henon-like maps

Vivek Vijay
Financial Risk Analysis, Categorical Data Analysis, Regression

Name Research Areas
DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
The desire to contribute to national and global causes such as the solar mission
and climate change is at the heart of the academic activities carried out within the 
Department of Mechanical Engineering. Several application domains of interest in 
Mechanical Engineering (such as solar energy, automotive technologies and health) 
motivate Students, Staff Members and Faculty Members.
The B.Tech. Program in Mechanical Engineering commenced in 2008, since the
inception of the Institute. Since then three batches have graduated and most of the 
Alumni are pursuing successful careers in the industry. Some of them have chosen to 
pursue higher studies in India, Europe and the United States of America.
During the last six years, several collaborative projects have been initiated with a
number of industries and research laboratories across India (such as Thermax, 
Sunborne, Areva, STEAG, BHEL, IOCL, ONGC, BARC, and NFTDC) to pursue research 
and development in the area of mechanical engineering.
To respond to the diverse needs of students, broad based Bachelors and Masters
Programs in Mechanical Engineering are being designed, with scope to let students 
specialize in interdisciplinary as well as sub-domains of Mechanical Engineering. A 
Doctoral Program is underway in the Department. Currently, about 10 Ph.D. students 
are pursuing research in thermal, design and manufacturing streams of Mechanical 
Engineering. The main objective of the academic programs is to build capacity and 
capability necessary to make the nation competitive in the globalized world. Also, the 
students are being made aware of professional skills, such as seeking patentable 
innovations, taking up technology transfer tasks and active collaboration with industrial 
partners. 
 
The following Faculty Members are associated with the department:
B. Ravindra 
Head of Department
Design, Dynamics, Vibration and Control
Akshay Prakash
Computational Fluid Dynamics
Anand Krishnan Plappally
Water, Water Management and Characterization of Engineered Materials

Barun Pratiher
Dynamics of Machines and Structures, Flexible Robots, MEMS, Rotor 
Dynamics, Nonlinear Oscillations
Gaurav Ameta
Computer-Aided Design, Additive Manufacturing, Tolerancing, 
Sustainable Design and Manufacturing
Kaushalkumar A. Desai
Modeling of Manufacturing Processes, CAD/CAM, CNC Machining, Error 
compensation
Laltu Chandra
Solar thermal sub-systems (open volumetric air receiver, thermal energy 
storage, air-water heat exchanger), Thermal hydraulics, Turbulence 
simulation 
(DNS/LES/HYBRID/RANS) 
& 
model 
development,
Computational Fluid Dynamics.
Prodyut R. Chakraborty
Heat and mass transfer, Latent heat based storage device for high 
temperature applications, Alloy solidification process, Active and passive 
solar cooling systems, Electronic cooling
Rahul Chibber
Welding and joining, Manufacturing and materials processing, Mechanical 
behaviour of materials
Suril V. Shah
Robotics, Multibody Dynamics and Control

Name Research Areas
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS
A visible research in fundamental Physics along with its applications is the major
theme of Physics Department at IIT Jodhpur. The Faculty members carry out research in 
the field of Astrophysics, Condensed Matter Physics & Material Science, Particle 
Physics, Experimental and Theoretical Quantum Optics, Quantum Information and 
Foundations of Quantum Mechanics. The research facilities available in the department 
include SQUID magnetometer, Physics Property Measurement Systems (PPMS), Raman 
Spectrometer and Scanning Tunnelling Microscope (STM). Following are the faculty 
members associated with the department:
Subhashish Banerjee 
Head of Department
Open Quantum Systems; Quantum Information; Non-Equilibrium Statistical 
Mechanics; Quantum Optics
Ambesh Dixit
Semiconductors, multifunctional ferroics & materials for energy-fabrication 
& characterization, Photovoltaic materials & devices ab initio DFT study and 
device simulations
Ashutosh Kumar Alok
Particle Physics and Cosmology
Monika Sinha
Astrophysics, Astroparticle physics
Satyajit Sahu
Information Processing in Biological Systems
V. Narayanan
Optics and Solar Field Design, Plasmonics, Laser Produced Plasmas (LPP), 
Pulsed Laser Deposition (PLD), Plasma Diagnostics (Interferometry & Optical 
Emission Spectroscopy (OES)), Laser Matter Interaction and Laser Cluster 
Interaction
The department also has a Scholar-in-Residence, Professor K. L. Chopra,
Advisor, Thin Film Laboratory, IIT Delhi.

Academic Activities in the Department
Physics Course Curriculum Review Workshop was conducted on 11 April 2015.
Professor P. C. Deshmukh (IIT Madras), Professor Rajiv V. Gavai (TIFR Mumbai), 
Professor P. K. Dutta (IIT Kharagpur), Professor Uma Sankar (IIT Bombay), Professor K. 
G. Suresh (IIT Bombay), and Professor Deshdeep Sahdev (IIT Kanpur) participated in 
the workshop. The agenda of the workshop was to discuss the M. Sc. Physics program 
along with all the courses offered by Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur.
FOCUS GROUPS
Biologically Inspired System Science (BISS)
Biologically Inspired System Science (BISS) is a stream initiated with the broad
objective to design novel, adaptive and sustainable technological solutions inspired by 
biological systems and processes. The Institute recognises the need for a test-oriented 
singular education towards a creativity-oriented quality multidisciplinary education, 
thereby blur existing boundaries between biology and engineering. B.Tech. Program in 
Biologically Inspired System Science (BISS) is run by this focus group in collaboration 
with the Department of Biology. 
 
 
System Science (SS)
The System Science stream was initiated in 2011 to promote and implement
interdisciplinary education and research by adopting a holistic systems thinking 
approach. Its vision is to transform students into trained graduates with the spirit of 
systems thinking in diverse domains of engineered systems, natural systems, and 
financial systems. The focus group runs an undergraduate program, B.Tech. in System 
Science (SS) in collaboration with the Department of Mathematics.

Staff Members
The following are the Staff Members engaged in various Offices and
Departments of the Institute.
Gaurav Nigam 
Superintendent
Abhay Kumar Awasthi 
Junior Assistant
Rashmi Dhyani 
Junior Assistant
Manish Kumar Bhomia 
Assistant Registrar
Ashish Kachhawaha 
Superintendent
Naresh Chouhan 
Junior Superintendent
Rakesh Kumar 
Junior Assistant
Biswajit Pramanik 
Junior Assistant
Goutam Sethiya 
Junior Assistant
S. Balachandra Iyer 
Registrar
Amardeep Sharma 
Deputy Registrar
Sandeep Singh Chandel 
Superintendent
Sharad Srivastava 
Assistant
Ajay Kumar Singh 
Junior Assistant
Gurpreet Kaur Virdi 
Assistant
Darsh Kumar Khatwani 
Assistant
T. Madhavi Lata 
Stenographer (on Deputation to IIT Tirupati)
Sanjeeb Mukherjee 
Executive Engineer (Civil)
Chandresh Pareek 
Junior Engineer (Civil)
Vinay Kumar 
Junior Engineer (Electrical)
Kshema Prakash 
Deputy Librarian
Amit Kumar Soni 
Senior Library & Information Assistant
Chunni Chhatwani 
Senior Library & Information Assistant
Kamleshkumar J. Patel 
Senior Library & Information Assistant
Amardeep Sharma 
Deputy Registrar (Planning)
Trilotama Singh 
Junior Assistant

Sandeep Pareek 
Junior Superintendent
Achinta Mondal 
Junior Assistant
Dhani Ram Choudhary 
Stenographer
Swati Kushwaha 
Junior Assistant
Sharabh Pradhan 
Junior Superintendent
Adarsh Kumar Srivastava 
Junior Assistant
Rimpesh Katiyar 
Technical Superintendent
Dheerendra Kumar Yadav 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Rinkesh Kumar Mangal 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Poonam Chand Sankhla 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Ram Singh Ratnu 
Technician
Vivek Verma 
Junior Technician
Gajraj Sharma 
Junior Technician
Hemraj Dhodhawat 
Junior Technician
Kailash Chander 
Junior Technician
Abhishek Sharma 
Junior Technician
Praveen Suthar 
Junior Technician
Bhagya Wardhan 
Junior Technician
Rambeer Singh 
Junior Technician
Bharat Pareek 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Mohan Mukesh Malviya 
Junior Technician
Ganpat Chowdhary 
Junior Technician
Shubham Pandey 
Junior Technician
Narendra Kumar Singh 
Technical Superintendent

S. No. Name of the Title of Thesis Supervisor Department Date of Defense
1. Shrivishal
Tripathi Shrivishal Analysis and Design of Akhilesh Mohan
(IITKgp)
Sandeep Yadav Electrical
Engineering 3 September
2015
Tripathi Wideband Fractal
3. Sibani Bisoyi Bias-Stress Stability and Shree Prakash
Tiwari Electrical
Engineering 16 December
2015
ACADEMICS
Academic Programs
Currently, the Institute offers the following four sets of Programs:
1. Bachelor of Technology Programs:
1. B.Tech. (Computer Science and Engineering) 
2. B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering) 
3. B.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering)
2. Master of Science Programs
3. Master of Technology Programs
4. Doctor of Philosophy Programs
1. Ph.D. with specialisation in Computer Science & Engineering 
2. Ph.D. with specialisation in Electrical Engineering 
3. Ph.D. with specialisation in Mechanical Engineering 
4. Ph.D. with specialisation in Biology 
5. Ph.D. with specialisation in Chemistry 
6. Ph.D. with specialisation in Mathematics 
7. Ph.D. with specialisation in Physics 
8. Ph.D. with specialisation in Humanities & Social Sciences
First set of Ph.D. Theses
IIT Jodhpur opens its account, with four students successfully defending their
Ph.D. theses during this year. Following are the details.
2. 
Heena 
Rathore
Improving Security in 
Wireless Sensor Networks 
Through Bio-Inspired 
Approaches
Venkata Ramana, B. 
Computer 
Science & 
Engineering
29 October 
2015
4. 
Deepak Kumar 
Chhangani
Role of MGRN1 E3 
Ubiquitin Ligase in Protein 
Quality Control 
Mechanism and 
Polyglutamine Diseases
Amit Kumar Mishra 
Biology 
7 January 2016

(a) International Institutes and Universities
1. University of Western Ontario, Canada (9 August 2010)
3. University of Waterloo, Canada (25 November 2010)
5. University of California, Merced (26 April 2011)
7. Institute of Science and Technology, Nara, Japan (28 February 2012)
Collaborations with Academia
The Institute has signed Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) with six
international universities, two international agencies, three national institutes and 
universities, and one national agency for furthering cooperation on specific fronts. These 
MoUs are:
2. 
Universitat Rovira I Virgili, Tarrgona, Spain (29 August 2010)
For the development of mutually beneficial academic program and
courses; coordination of academic staff travel for the purposes of teaching, 
research, and training; cooperation of student mobility program for study, 
research, and for joint academic activities such as research publications, 
conferences and symposia; exchange of documentation and research materials 
in the field of mutual interest provided that there are no legal barriers against 
exchange and collaboration in international master’s and doctoral programs 
between both the institutions.
4. 
University of Manitoba, Canada (9 December 2010)
For the development of mutually beneficial programs for student
internships and graduate study in order to provide students opportunities for 
advancement of knowledge and international experience.
6. 
Arid Forest Research Institute, Jodhpur, India (15 August 2011)
For the development of sheltering belt plantation as urban forestry
model for at a selected site at IIT Jodhpur.

(b) International Agencies
1. 1. The Commissariat a I’Energie Atomique et aux Energies Alternatives, France
(c) National Institutes and Universities
1. All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur
3. Sardar Patel University of Police, Security, and Criminal Justice, Jodhpur
2. 
Embassy of France in India (28 March 2011)
To explore prospective domains for students and scholars to learn French
language effectively.
2. 
National Law University, Jodhpur
To collaborate in various academic activities in the spheres of expertise.

S. No. Speaker & Topic
(2) Dr. Arunkumar M. Sampath
(4) Dr. Sachin P. Lodha
Collaborations with Industry
IIT Jodhpur has initiated to collaborate with industry towards enhancing the
learning experience of students and collaboration opportunities for Faculty Members. 
These include:
1. Vanguard Lectures; and 
2. Industry Immersion Program.
Vanguard Lectures
The Vanguard Lecture Series is an integral part of Blended B.Tech. Program. It
enables the Students to listen to inspirational talks given by experts from Industry and 
Academia, and to get a big-picture of the technological advances and emerging trends in 
different fields.
In the year 2015, two more series of Vanguard Lectures were organised since July
1. Series 3: July - September 2015, and 
2. Series 4: January - May 2016.
The following are the details of speakers and topics covered in the two series.
(1) 
Mr. N. Jayaram 
Vice President, Research and Development 
TVS Motor Company Limited, Hosur 
“New Product Development (Simulation Way)” 
27 July 2015
(3) 
Mr. M. Paranjpe 
Chief, Hydro & Renewable Operations and Safety 
Tata Power Company Limited, Khopoli 
“Hydropower Plant Challenges” 
3 August 2015

(6) Dr. Barun Chakrabarti
(2) Mr. Anil Bhansali
(4) Professor Raghunath K. Shevgaonkar
(1) 
Professor Navneet Arora 
Professor, Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee 
 “Excellence in Engineering and Expectations from an Engineer” 
7 January 2016

Industry Immersion Program
In July 2014, when the Institute launched the blended Technical Education model
at the B.Tech. level, the intent was to inspire students to build passion for technology to 
solve the grand technology challenges of the Indian Industry. One of the elements of the 
model is to have industry captains give the first lectures of each course to lay the 
cornerstone by giving the big-picture of sectoral technologies, industry needs and 
research opportunities. The model gained momentum with Vanguard Lecture Series, and 
now this has become a distinctive feature of the blended Technical Education Model for the 
B.Tech. Program of the Institute. Then, this was followed by the Grand Technology 
Projects (GTPs) Competition during January-March 2015, and interested students showed 
special excitement. Most students are now seeing merit in converting their B.Tech. 
Projects to GTPs.
Currently, five industry partners have joined the Industry Immersion Program at
the B.Tech. level, namely: 
(1) Mahindra & Mahindra Limited, Mumbai; 
(2) Larsen & Toubro Limited, Mumbai; 
(3) Tata Motors Limited, Mumbai; 
(4) TVS Motor Company Limited, Chennai; and 
(5) Tata Power Limited, Mumbai.
Beginning 11 May 2015, 31 Students and 5 Faculty Members immersed inside
these leading technology Industries as the first of the three successive summer 
engagement. The key features of this Industry Immersion Program (IIP) include: 
(a) For Students: Learning-by-doing, Experiential and cooperative learning, Working on
live assignments under the tutelage of industry professionals, and Engaging in 
industry-supported projects spanning over 2½ years starting IV semester.
(b) For the Institute: Faculty Members will be able to look beyond the Institute and
develop linkages with Industry; Course curricula will become more real – a silent 
advantage; Faculty Members will have opportunities for research and consultancy 
projects that are current and impactful; and greater sensitivity to integrate industry 
needs in academia, to benchmark students and Faculty Members from Industry 
perspective, and to reflect and undertake needed correction in strategies of the 
Institute.
By choosing to join the Industry Immersion Program, select students have chosen a
path different from others. It will put them on a pedestal of competence and 
accomplishments - beyond the qualification by the B.Tech. Degree.

RESEARCH
Highlights
IIT Jodhpur becomes one of the five IITs in DBT-Pan IIT Center for Bioenergy
The Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Ministry of Science & Technology,
Government of India, and five IITs, namely, IIT Bombay, IIT Kharagpur, IIT Roorkee, IIT 
Guwahati, and IIT Jodhpur, have come together to launch a virtual Center for 
Bioenergy. IIT Bombay will coordinate the activities of this virtual center. The main 
objective of this Center is to develop advanced technologies in the area of biofuels, 
paving the way for a sustainable solution to the energy crisis. Also, the Center aims to 
develop a mutually beneficial relationship with the bio-energy industry in India.
V. Narayanan, Coordinator (Research & Development), IIT Jodhpur, represented
the Institute at the signing of the Memorandum of Agreement (MoA), at IIT Bombay on 
3 September 2015.
MoA Signing
Faculty Members at IIT Jodhpur working on Bio Fuels 
 
 
Biomass, or bio-energy, has been acknowledged as a renewable energy source
that can replace fossil fuels, with the added bonus that the biomass can absorb carbon 
dioxide from the atmosphere and reduce the greenhouse effect. Bio-fuel, obtained either 
from microbial fermentation or from the pyrolysis of biomass in an inert gas 
atmosphere, has a significant appeal for use in transportation fuels, both economically 
and technologically. Algae can produce more oil than other biofuel feed stocks. The 
bottle neck of this technology is to devise cultivation methods for algae which can 
support higher growth rates and oil productivities, efficient methods to convert algae oil 
to fatty acid methyl esters (biodiesel) or to develop a “Right Catalyst” that can convert 
biomass to fuel (bio) for the current technology.
“Catalytic Upgrading of Algae Biomass to Transport Fuel” is the project Rakesh K.
Sharma, Assistant Professor is working on. This research aims to develop new and 
efficient heterogeneous catalytic systems for conversion of algae biomass to transport 
fuel 
via 
tandem 
hydrocracking 
followed 
by 
Hydrodenitrogenation 
and/or
hydrodeoxygenation processes. These heterogeneous catalytic systems based on metals

nanoparticles supported/intercalated/layered in zeolites and clays. Successful catalysts 
are aimed to be green, recyclable and scalable (kilogram level). These catalysts will be 
sulphide free non noble metal catalysts. In next phase, the substrate applications will be 
extended from algal-oil to edible and non-edible oils. The reactions will be essentially 
carried out at two operating conditions, for mild (50-200°C, 100 bar) and deep 
hydrotreatment (200-350°C, 200 bar). Mechanistic studies of these catalytic processes 
will be focal point to design a better catalyst.
“Development of low cost Microbial carbon capture cells for power generation and algae
cultivation” is the project Meenu Chhabra, Assistant Professor, Department of Biology, is 
working on. Bio-fuels from algae have a potential to completely replace fossil based 
fuels and provide energy security for the future. However, the cost of algae bio-fuels is 
still too high for commercial application. In this context, a process for the production of 
algae and electrical energy using microbial carbon capture (MCC) cells is proposed. In 
MCC cells, the process of algae biomass degradation complements the process of algae 
biomass production with concomitant power generation.
These two projects together, which are funded by Department of Biotechnology,
Government of India, are likely to offer an exciting technology proposition of offering 
non-fossil fuels for the nation.

S. No. Project Title
R & D Projects
The Faculty Members in the Institute are currently working on 47 sponsored
research projects. Their details are:
(2) 
Understanding the molecular function of MGRN1 in Chaperone Mediated Autophagy 
Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India 
PI: Amit Mishra 
Rs. 41.19 Lakhs
(3) 
How AMFR gene regulates cell division and cancer after stress exposure? 
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), DAE, Government of India 
PI: Amit Mishra 
Rs. 23.9 Lakhs
(4) 
Self-assembly of collagen peptides as foundational knowledge for cardiovascular disease 
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), DAE, Government of India 
PI: Karunakar Kar 
Rs. 18.43 Lakhs
(5) 
Bioremediation of low level wastes including denitrification using microbial fuel cells 
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), DAE, Government of India 
PI: Meenu Chhabra; Co-PI: Atul Kumar 
Rs. 23.73 Lakhs
(6) 
Development of low cost Microbial Carbon capture (MCC) cells for algae cultivation and 
powers generation 
Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India 
PI: Meenu Chhabra 
Rs. 172 Lakhs
(7) 
Deposition of particulate matter in lungs 
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), DAE, Government of India 
PI: Sushmita Jha 
Rs. 24.79 Lakhs
(8) 
Role of the inflammasome associated proteins in glioma 
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), DST, Government of India 
PI: Sushmita Jha 
Rs. 22.30 Lakhs

(10) 
Chemical Dynamics Simulations of Complex Organic Reactions 
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), DST, Government of India 
PI: Manikandan Paranjothy 
Rs. 18.7 Lakhs
(11) 
Generation, Storage and Distribution of Solar Hydrogen 
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India 
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma 
Rs. 39.63 Lakhs
(12) 
Asymmetric Hydrogenation on Carbon Nanotube Surface 
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India 
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma 
Rs. 25.25 Lakhs
(13) 
Molecular Sensors: Synthesis and Anion Recognition Studies 
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), DST, Government of India 
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma 
Rs. 27 Lakhs
(14) 
Catalytic Upgrading of Bio-Oil to Transport Fuel 
Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India 
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma 
Rs. 94.79 Lakhs
(17) 
Visveswaraya Ph.D. Scholarship scheme for Electronics & IT 
Department of Electronics & Information Technology (DeitY), Government of India 
PI: Anil Kumar Tiwari 
Rs. 16.25 Lakhs
(18) 
Computationally efficient fixed complexity sphere decodes for multiuser MIMO 
communications 
Science and Engineering Research Board, Department of Science & Technology, Government of 
India 
PI: Arun Kumar Singh 
Rs. 22.82 Lakhs
(19) 
Development of Programmable Emulator for Photovoltaic Plant to Facilitate Complex 
Testing Requirements 
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), DST, Government of India 
PI: Deepakkumar M. Fulwani 
Rs. 9.48 Lakhs

(20) 
 
Development of Metal Doped TiO2 Low Dimension Structures by Sputtering for Gas Sensing 
Applications 
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences, Department of Atomic Energy, Government of India 
PI: Mahesh Kumar 
Rs. 17.46 Lakhs
(21) 
Ion-Beam Synthesis and Characterization of Gallium Nitride Based Nanocrystals embedded 
in Si based Matrices for New-Generation Photodetector and Light-Emitter Applications 
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India 
PI: Mahesh Kumar 
Rs. 55.72 Lakhs
(22) 
Development of mems based gas sensors using RF sputtered transition metal doped ZnO 
Nanostructures 
Science and Engineering Research Board, Department of Science & Technology (DST), 
Government of India 
PI: Mahesh Kumar 
Rs. 24.17 Lakhs
(23) 
Development of Tunable RF Filter Based on Ferroelectric Thin Film by Sputtering 
Indian National Science Academy 
PI: Mahesh Kumar 
Rs. 5 Lakhs
(24) 
 
Reproductive Child Health 
UNICEF, Jaipur Branch 
PI: Sandeep Kumar Yadav 
Rs. 38.52 Lakhs
(25) 
Algorithms for Blind Signal Detection and Demodulation 
Defense Research & Development Organization (DRDO), Jodhpur, Government of India 
PI: Sandeep Kumar Yadav 
Rs. 55.24 Lakhs
(26) 
 
Developing Dielectric Semiconductor Combinations and Processes for Flexible Organic 
Electronics 
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), DST, Government of India 
PI: Shree Prakash Tiwari 
Rs. 12.84 Lakhs
(27) 
Design of a sensor signal conditioning system(I) & multiprocessor Scheduling Algorithms 
using control theoretic Approach(II) 
Department of Electronics & Information Technology (DeitY), Government of India 
PI: Shree Prakash Tiwari 
Rs. 99.72 Lakhs
(28) 
 
Encapsulation of Organic devices by atomic layer deposition(DRDO CAR Proposal) 
Defense Research & Development Organization (DRDO), Jodhpur, Government of India 
PI: Shree Prakash Tiwari 
Rs. 9.96 Lakhs

(30) 
 
Where the Bougainvillea Blooms: Stories of Place from a Resilient Landscape 
M. R. A. R. Educational Foundation 
PI: Vidya Sarveswaran 
Rs. 0.5 Lakhs
(33) 
 
Establishment of the Centre of Excellence in Solar Thermal Research and Education 
Ministry of New & Renewable Energy, Government of India 
PI: Laltu Chandra 
Rs. 40 Crores
(34) 
 
IOC-BHEL-IITJ CSP Plant 
Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. 
PI: Laltu Chandra 
Rs. 60 Lakhs
(35) 
 
Thermal Design of PCM Cool and Warm Vest 
Defense Research & Development Organization (DRDO), Jodhpur, Government of India 
PI: Prodyut Ranjan Chakraborty 
Rs. 9.96 Lakhs
(36) 
 
Hybrid reactionless manipulation and visual serving of a satellite mounted robot for 
autonomous on orbit services 
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India 
PI: Suril Vijaykumar Shah 
Rs. 35 Lakhs
(37) 
Singularity free reactionless manipulation of a satellite mounted dual-arm robot for capture 
of tumbling orbiting object 
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India 
PI: Suril Vijaykumar Shah 
Rs. 24.77 Lakhs
(39) 
 
Development of Ferroelectric and their composite with hexaferrites for microwave 
absorption applications 
Defense Research & Development Organization (DRDO), Jodhpur, Government of India 
PI: Ambesh Dixit 
Rs. 9.55 Lakhs

(40) 
 
Investigation of Magnetoelectric coupling in Cu1-xTMxO Multiferroic System 
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), DAE, Government of India 
PI: Ambesh Dixit 
Rs. 23.42 Lakhs
(41) 
Development of plasmonic metal hybrid electrode system for II-VI quantum dot sensitized 
solar cells (QDSSCs) realization of carrier multiplication for better efficiency 
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India 
PI: Ambesh Dixit 
Rs. 32.87 Lakhs
(42) 
 
Development of high thermal conductivity PCM composites for thermal management 
Defense Research & Development Organization (DRDO), Jodhpur, Government of India 
PI: Ambesh Dixit 
Rs. 9.8 Lakhs
(43) 
 
Design and development of high capacity and low cost Li2TMSio4(TM=transition metals) 
silicate materials for future rechargeable lithium ion battery 
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India 
PI: Ambesh Dixit 
Rs. 23.88 Lakhs
(44) 
 
Probing Magnetic Structures and Spin Flop transition in bulk and nanostructured FeVo4 
Multiferroic System 
UGC-DAE, Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India 
PI: Ambesh Dixit
(45) 
 
Hunting of New Physics Through b-> S Transitions 
Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR), Government of India 
PI: Ashutosh K. Alok 
Co-PI: Subhashish Banerjee 
Rs. 11.92 Lakhs
(46) 
 
Synchrony Based Evolution of Various Biological and Artificial Systems to Understand 
Complex Computational Aspects 
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India 
PI: Satyajit Sahu 
Rs. 35 Lakhs
(47) 
 
Graph Theoretical Aspects in Quantum Information Processing 
Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), Government of India 
PI: Subhashish Banerjee 
Rs. 9.92 Lakhs

Department Patents Journal Conference Preprints Book Total
Filed Articles Papers Chapters
Total 2 75 20 10 4 112
Patents & Publications
In 2015-16, our Faculty Members have filed 2 patents, published 75
research papers and articles in scholarly journals; 20 of their works have been 
covered as conference presentations and in conference proceedings; 10 preprints 
and 4 book chapters have been contributed.
Biology 
 
10 
 
 
 
10
Chemistry 
2 
13 
3 
 
 
18
Computer Science & Engineering 
 
3 
1 
 
 
4
Electrical Engineering 
 
18 
9 
 
 
27
Humanities & Social Sciences 
 
4 
1 
 
 
5
Mathematics 
 
3 
2 
3 
2 
10
Mechanical Engineering 
 
9 
2 
 
2 
13
Physics 
 
15 
2 
7 
 
24

The following is the department-wise list of patents and publications.
1. Chhabra, M., Mishra, S., & Sreekrishnan, T. R. (2015). Immobilized laccase mediated
dye decolorization and transformation pathway of azo dye acid red 27. Journal of 
Environmental Health Science and Engineering, 13(1), 1–9.
Mishra, A. (2016). Mahogunin ring finger 1 confers cytoprotection against mutant SOD1 
aggresomes and is defective in an ALS mouse model. Neurobiology of Disease, 86, 16–28. 
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.nbd.2015.11.017
K. (2015). Tyrosine- and tryptophan-coated gold nanoparticles inhibit amyloid aggregation 
of insulin. Amino Acids, 1–10. http://doi.org/10.1007/s00726-015-2046-6
P. C. A. van der. (2016). Huntingtin exon 1 fibrils feature an interdigitated β-hairpin–
based polyglutamine core. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 
201521933. ISSN: 1091-6490. http://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1521933113
5. Kumar, D., Pal, S., Chhabbra, M., & Harinipriya, S. (2015). Separation of Enantiomers
of 
Alanine 
from 
Racemic 
Mixture 
by 
Polycrystalline 
Metal 
Surfaces 
- 
A
Spectroelectrochemical 
Approach. 
ECS 
Transactions, 
66(32), 
33–43.
6. Sharma, N., & Jha, S. (2015). NLR-regulated pathways in cancer: opportunities and
obstacles for therapeutic interventions. Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences, 1–24. 
ISSN: 1420-9071. http://doi.org/10.1007/s00018-015-2123-8
(2015). Ibuprofen Induces Mitochondrial-Mediated Apoptosis Through Proteasomal 
Dysfunction. 
Molecular 
Neurobiology, 
1–14. 
ISSN 
1559-1182.
Selective multifaceted E3 ubiquitin ligases barricade extreme defense: Potential therapeutic 
targets for neurodegeneration and ageing. Ageing Research Reviews, 24, Part B, 138–
159. ISSN: 1568-1637. http://doi.org/10.1016/j.arr.2015.07.009
(2015). Mahogunin Ring Finger-1 (MGRN1), a Multifaceted Ubiquitin Ligase: Recent 
Unraveling 
of 
Neurobiological 
Mechanisms. 
Molecular 
Neurobiology, 
1–13.
10. Vijay, A., Vaishnava, M., & Chhabra, M. (2016). Microbial fuel cell assisted nitrate
nitrogen removal using cow manure and soil. Environmental Science and Pollution 
Research, 1–13. eISSN: 1614-7499. http://doi.org/10.1007/s11356-015-5934-0

“Real-time Calibration free water quality sensor (Device and System)”
Inventors 
 
Rakesh K. Sharma (IIT Jodhpur) & Hareesh, P. V. (Panasonic Corporation, Japan)
Patent Reference Number (Provisional) 
 
1468/CHE/2015
Date 
 
23 March 2015
2. Title
“Metal Nanoparticles Intercalated Clay for Solvent Free Hydrogenation of Squalene into
Inventors 
 
Rakesh K. Sharma & Vineet K. Soni
Patent Application Number 
 
201611009866
3. Adhikari, S., & Kumar, A. (2016). Upper bound on singlet fraction of two-qubit mixed entangled
states. Quantum Information Processing, 1–7. eISSN: 1573-1332.
4. Bondarenko, G. N., Ganina, O. G., Sharma, R. K., & Beletskaya, I. P. (2015). Catalytic activity
of Pd catalysts on different supports in hydrogenation of 1-phenylethenylphosphonic acid. Russian 
Chemical Bulletin, 63(8), 1856–1859.
5. Choudhary, G., Sharma, R. K., & Plappally, A. K. (2015). Local material composite sintered
systems for fluoride removal. Desalination and Water Treatment, 55(10), 2626–2637. 
http://doi.org/10.1080/19443994.2014.957936
6. Debnath, A., & Schäfer, L. V. (2015). Structure and Dynamics of Phospholipid Nanodiscs from
All-Atom and Coarse-Grained Simulations. The Journal of Physical Chemistry B. 119(13), 6991-
7002. ISSN: 1520-6106.
7. Debnath, A., Wiegand, S., Paulsen, H., Kremer, K., & Peter, C. (2015). Derivation of coarse-
grained simulation models of chlorophyll molecules in lipid bilayers for applications in light 
harvesting systems. Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics.
8. Goudar, R., Gupta, R., Kulkarni, G. U., & Inamdar, S. R. (2015). Rotational Diffusion of a New
Large Non Polar Dye Molecule in Alkanes. Journal of Fluorescence, 1–9.
(2015). Solution processed nanomanufacturing of SERS substrates with random Ag nanoholes 
exhibiting uniformly high enhancement factors. RSC Advances, 5(103), 85019–85027. 
http://doi.org/10.1039/C5RA17119A

10. Kiruthika, S., Gupta, R., Anand, A., Kumar, A., & Kulkarni, G. U. (2015). Fabrication of
Oxidation Resistant Metal Wire Network Based Transparent Electrodes by a Spray-Roll Coating 
Process. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces, 7(49), 27215-27222. eISSN: 1944-8252. 
http://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.5b08171
11. Sharma, P., & Sharma, R. K. (2015). Platinum functionalized multiwall carbon nanotube
composites as recyclable catalyst for highly efficient asymmetric hydrogenation of methyl pyruvate. 
RSC Advances, 5(124), 102481–102487. http://doi.org/10.1039/C5RA21790C
Development of Low Cost Polycalixarene-Clay Based Water Guards. Indian Water Week, 3(91).
13. Shejale, K. P., Laishram, D., & Sharma, R. K. (2016). High-performance dye-sensitized solar cell
using dimensionally controlled titania synthesized at sub-zero temperatures. RSC Advances, 6(28), 
23459–23466. ISSN: 2046-2069.
14. Shejale, K. P., Laishram, D., Roy, M. S., Kumar, M., & Sharma, R. K. (2016). On the study of
phase and dimensionally controlled titania nanostructures synthesis at sub-zero temperatures. 
Materials & Design, 92, 535–540. ISSN 0264-1275. 
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.matdes.2015.12.047
15. Timsina, Y. N., Sharma, R. K., & RajanBabu, T. V. (2015). Cobalt-catalysed Asymmetric
1. Chaudhary, G., Sharma, P. R., Soni, V. K., Pandey, S. & Sharma, R.K. (2015). New Ceramic
Nanocomposite Filters for Fluoride Removal using Acacia Waste. In 2nd National Conference On 
Emerging Trends Of Research in Applied Sciences, Experimental & Computational 
Techniques: Vol. 4 (12). Jodhpur Institute of Engineering and Technology, Jodhpur (pp. 11-
16). ISSN: 2278-0181.
2. Sharma, P. & Sharma R.K. (2016). Asymmetric Hydrogenation of Ethyl 2-Oxo-2-Phenylacetate
with Chiral Platinum Loaded on Carbon Fiber. In 2nd National Conference On Emerging Trends 
Of Research in Applied Sciences, Experimental & Computational Techniques: Vol. 4 (12). 
Jodhpur Institute of Engineering and Technology, Jodhpur (pp. 6-10). ISSN: 2278-0181.
3. Sharma, P.R., Soni V.K., Chaudhary G., Plappally A.K., Pandey S., & Sharma R.K. (2016).
1. Ansari, Z. A., & Harit, G. (2016). Nearest neighbour classification of Indian sign language gestures
using kinect camera. Sadhana, 1–22. ISSN: 0973-7677. http://doi.org/10.1007/s12046-015-
0405-3
2. Rathore, H., Badarla, V. R., & George, K. J. (2015). Sociopsychological trust model for Wireless
Sensor Networks. Journal of Network and Computer Applications. ISSN: 1084-8045. 
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2015.09.009
3. Bajaj, M., Nayak, K., Gundapaneni, S., & Rao, V. R. (2016). Effect of Metal Gate Granularity
Induced Random Fluctuations on Si Gate-All-Around Nanowire MOSFET 6-T SRAM Cell 
Stability. IEEE Transactions on Nanotechnology, PP (99), 1–1. ISSN: 1536-125X. 
http://doi.org/10.1109/TNANO.2016.2515638

1. Sharma, K., & Badarla, V. R. (2015). Topology aware flow scheduling for data center network. In
2015 IEEE International Conference on Advanced Networks and Telecommunications 
Systems (ANTS) (pp. 1–6). ISBN: 978-1-5090-0293-1.
1. Barala, S. S., Singh, J., Ranwa, S., & Kumar, M. (2015). Radiation Induced Response of
Ba0.5Sr0.5TiO3 Based Tunable Capacitors Under Gamma Irradiation. IEEE Transactions on Nuclear 
Science, PP(99), 1–1. doi:10.1109/TNS.2015.2449991
2. Bharti, D., & Tiwari, S. P. (2016). Crystallinity and performance improvement in solution
processed organic field-effect transistors due to structural dissimilarity of the additive solvent. 
Synthetic Metals, 215, 1–6. ISSN: 0379-6779. http://doi.org/10.1016/j.synthmet.2016.01.013
(2016). A comprehensive study of charge trapping in organic field-effect devices with promising 
semiconductors and different contact metals by displacement current measurements. Semiconductor 
Science and Technology, 31(2), 025011. ISSN: 0268-1242. http://doi.org/10.1088/0268-
1242/31/2/025011
4. Chopra, P., & Yadav, S. K. (2016). Fault detection and classification by unsupervised feature
extraction and dimensionality reduction. Complex & Intelligent Systems, 1–9. ISSN: 2198-6053. 
http://doi.org/10.1007/s40747-015-0004-2
5. Jain, A., & Yadav, S. K. (2016). Design and Analysis of Compact 108 Element Multimode Antenna
Array for Massive Mimo Base Station. Progress in Electromagnetics Research C, 61, 179–184. 
ISSN: 1937-8718. http://doi.org/10.2528/PIERC15110502
6. Jain, P. K., Tiwari, A. K., & Chourasia, V. S. (2016). Performance analysis of seismocardiography
for heart sound signal recording in noisy scenarios. Journal of Medical Engineering & 
Technology, 0(0), 1–13. ISSN: 0309-1902. http://doi.org/10.3109/03091902.2016.1139203
7. Mahela, O. P., & Shaik, A. G. (2015). A review of distribution static compensator. Renewable
and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 50, 531–546. http://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2015.05.018
8. Mahela, O. P., & Shaik, A. G. (2016). Comprehensive overview of grid interfaced wind energy
generation systems. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 57, 260–281. ISSN: 1364-
0321. http://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2015.12.048
9. Mahela, O. P., & Shaik, A. G. (2016). Topological aspects of power quality improvement
techniques: A comprehensive overview. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 58, 1129–
1142. ISSN: 1364-0321. http://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2015.12.251
10. Raghuwanshi, V., Bharti, D., & Tiwari, S. P. (2016). Flexible organic field-effect transistors with
TIPS-Pentacene crystals exhibiting high electrical stability upon bending. Organic Electronics, 31, 
177–182. ISSN: 1566-1199.
11. Ranwa, S., Kumar, M., Singh, J., Fanetti, M., & Kumar, M. (2015). Schottky-contacted vertically
self-aligned ZnO nanorods for hydrogen gas nanosensor applications. Journal of Applied Physics, 
118(3), 034509. http://doi.org/10.1063/1.4926953

12. Roul, B., Kumar, M., Rajpalke, M. K., Bhat, T. N., & Krupanidhi, S. B. (2015). Binary group III-
nitride based heterostructures: band offsets and transport properties. Journal of Physics D: Applied 
Physics, 48(42), 423001. http://doi.org/10.1088/0022-3727/48/42/423001
13. Singh, M., Mahia, R. N., & Fulwani, D. M. (2016). Towards characterization of driver nodes in
complex 
network 
with 
actuator 
saturation. 
Neurocomputing. 
ISSN: 
0925-2312.
14. Singh, J., Ranwa, S., Akhtar, J., & Kumar, M. (2015). Growth of residual stress-free ZnO films on
SiO2/Si substrate at room temperature for MEMS devices. AIP Advances, 5(6), 067140. 
http://doi.org/10.1063/1.4922911
15. Singh, S., Fulwani, D. M., & Kumar, V. (2015). Robust sliding-mode control of dc/dc boost
converter feeding a constant power load. IET Power Electronics, 8(7), 1230–1237. ISSN: 1755-
4535. http://doi.org/10.1049/iet-pel.2014.0534
16. Singh, S., Rathore, N., & Fulwani, D. M. (2016). Mitigation of Negative Impedance Instabilities
in a DC/DC Buck-Boost Converter with Composite Load. Journal of Power Electronics. ISSN: 
2093 – 4718.
17. Tripathi, S., Mohan, A., & Yadav, S. K. (2016). A compact fractal UWB antenna with
reconfigurable band notch functions. Microwave and Optical Technology Letters, 58(3), 509–
514. ISSN: 1098-2760. http://doi.org/10.1002/mop.29609
18. Tripathi, S., Mohan, A., & Yadav, S. K. (2015). A compact octagonal fractal UWB MIMO
1. Agarwal, A., Deekshitha, K., Singh, S., & Fulwani, D. M. (2015). Sliding mode control of a
bidirectional DC/DC converter with constant power load. In 2015 IEEE First International 
Conference on DC Microgrids (ICDCM) (pp. 287–292). doi:10.1109/ICDCM.2015.7152056
2. Gautam, A. R., Singh, S., & Fulwani, D. M. (2015). DC bus voltage regulation in the presence of
constant power load using sliding mode controlled dc-dc Bi-directional converter interfaced storage 
unit. In 2015 IEEE First International Conference on DC Microgrids (ICDCM) (pp. 257–262). 
doi:10.1109/ICDCM.2015.7152050
3. Jakhetiya, V., Lin, W., Jaiswal, S. P., Tiwari, A. K., & Guntuku, S. C. (2015). Observation model
based perceptually motivated bilateral filter for image reconstruction. In 2015 IEEE International 
Conference 
on 
Digital 
Signal 
Processing 
(DSP) 
(pp. 
201–205).
4. Mahela, O. P., & Shaik, A. G. (2015). Detection of power quality events associated with grid
integration of 100kW solar PV plant. In 2015 International Conference on Energy Economics and 
Environment 
(ICEEE) 
(pp. 
1–6). 
ISBN: 
9781467374927.
5. Mahela, O. P., & Shaik, A. G. (2015). Power Quality Detection in Distribution System with Wind
Energy Penetration Using Discrete Wavelet Transform. In 2015 Second International Conference 
on Advances in Computing and Communication Engineering (ICACCE) (pp. 328–333). 
ISBN: 9781479917341. http://doi.org/10.1109/ICACCE.2015.52
6. Mahia, R. N., Singh, M., & Fulwani, D. M. (2015). Algorithms to select right driver nodes for
multi-agent systems. In Control Conference (ASCC), 2015 10th Asian (pp. 1–6). Kota Kinabalu: 
IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-4799-7862-5. http://doi.org/10.1109/ASCC.2015.7244880

7. Mahia, R. N., Singh, M., & Fulwani, D. M. (2015). Characterization of driver nodes: Network of
discrete-time agents. In Control Conference (ECC), 2015 European (pp. 622–627). 
http://doi.org/10.1109/ECC.2015.7330611
8. Maheshwari, S., & Tiwari, A. K. (2015). Walking parameters estimation through channel state
information preliminary results. In 2015 9th International Conference on Signal Processing and 
Communication Systems (ICSPCS) (pp. 1–8). Cairns, Australia: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-4673-8118-
5. http://doi.org/10.1109/ICSPCS.2015.7391801
9. Rathore, N., Bhartiya, P., & Fulwani, D. M. (2015). Development of a Programmable Emulator
for a Photovoltaic Source (SAE Technical Paper No. 2015-28-0081). Warrendale, PA: SAE 
International. Retrieved from http://papers.sae.org/2015-28-0081/
1. Mamudu, H. M., Veeranki, S. P., John, R. M., Kioko, D. M., & Ogwell Ouma, A. E. (2015).
Secondhand Smoke Exposure Among Nonsmoking Adolescents in West Africa. American Journal 
of Public Health, e1–e8.
2. Narayanan, V. H. (2016). Revisiting the self: a sine qua non for understanding embodiment. AI &
3. Sarveswaran, 
V. 
(2015). 
An 
Elephant 
in 
the 
Desert. 
Trumpeter, 
31(1), 
76–80.
4. Veeranki, S. P., Mamudu, H. M., John, R. M., & Ouma, A. E. O. (2015). Prevalence and
correlates of tobacco use among school-going adolescents in Madagascar. Journal of Epidemiology 
and Global Health. 5(3).Pp 239-247. eISSN: 2210-6014. http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jegh.2014.12.005
1. Owusu, D. & John, R. M. (2015). Regional differences and determinants of secondhand smoke
exposure among never-smoking youth. Presented at the 143rd APHA Annual Meeting and 
Exposition 
(October 
31 
- 
November 
4, 
2015), 
APHA. 
Retrieved 
from
1. Bhatnagar, G., & Liu, Z. (2015). A novel image fusion framework for night-vision navigation and
surveillance. 
Signal, 
Image 
and 
Video 
Processing, 
9(1), 
165–175.
2. Dani, S. G., Shah, R., & Sharma, P. (2015). Affine almost automorphic actions on compact
nilmanifolds. Ergodic Theory and Dynamical Systems, 35(06), 1783–1794. ISSN: 1469-4417. 
http://doi.org/10.1017/etds.2014.19
3. Sharma, P. (2015). Uniform Convergence and Dynamical Behavior of a Discrete Dynamical System.
Journal of Applied Mathematics and Physics, 3(7), 766–770.
1. Bhati, A., Hiremath, K. R., & Dixit, V. (2015). Design and fabrication of wire based bandwidth
enhanced metamaterial absorber. In 2015 International Conference on Microwave and Photonics 
(ICMAP) (pp. 1–2). ISBN: 978-1-4673-6897-1. http://doi.org/10.1109/ICMAP.2015.7408766

2. Bhati, A., Hiremath, K. R., & Dixit, V. (2015). Design of wire based single/dual/triple band
polarization insensitive metamaterial absorber. In 2015 International Conference on Microwave 
and Photonics (ICMAP) (pp. 1–2). ISBN: 978-1-4673-6897-1. 
http://doi.org/10.1109/ICMAP.2015.7408767
1. Sharma, P. (2015). Induced Dynamics on the Hyperspaces. arXiv:1512.06940 [math.DS].
Retrieved from http://arxiv.org/abs/1512.06940
2. Sharma, P., & Kumar, D. (2016). Matrix Characterization of Multidimensional Subshifts of Finite
Type. arXiv:1603.00754 [math.DS]. Retrieved from https://arxiv.org/abs/1603.00754
3. Sharma, P., & Raghav, M. (2015). Dynamics of Nonautonomous Discrete Dynamical Systems.
arXiv:1512.08868 [math.DS]. Retrieved from http://arxiv.org/abs/1512.08868
1. 
 
Bhatnagar, G. (2015). Multimodal medical image fusion based on SUSAN feature in framelet 
domain. In C. T. Davis (Ed.), Image Fusion: Principles, Technology and Applications (pp. 
121–152). NewYork: Nova Science Publishers. ISBN: 978-1-63482-115-5.
2. 
 
Saha, A., Bhatnagar, G., & Wu, Q. M. J. (2015). Saliency based Framework for Thermal and 
Visual Image Fusion (pp. 17-44). In C. T. Davis (Ed.), Image Fusion: Principles, Technology 
and Applications (pp. 17–44). NewYork: Nova Science Publishers. ISBN: 978-1-63482-115-5.
1. Desai, K. A., & Rao, P. V. M. (2015). Machining of curved geometries with constant engagement
tool paths. Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part B: Journal of 
Engineering Manufacture. http://doi.org/10.1177/0954405415616787
2. Patidar, D., Tiwari, S., Sharma, P., Pardeshi, R., Chandra, L., & Shekhar, R. (2015). Solar
Convective Furnace for Metals Processing. JOM, 1–9. http://doi.org/10.1007/s11837-015-1633-z
3. Patidar, D., Tiwari, S., Sharma, P. K., Chandra, L., & Shekhar, R. (2015). Open Volumetric Air
Receiver Based Solar Convective Aluminum Heat Treatment Furnace System. Energy Procedia, 69, 
506–517. http://doi.org/10.1016/j.egypro.2015.03.059
4. Singla, Y. K., Chhibber, R., Avdesh, Goyal, S., & Sharma, V. (2016). Influence of single and
dual particle reinforcements on the corrosion behavior of aluminum alloy based composites. 
Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part L: Journal of Materials Design 
and Applications. ISSN: 1464-4207. http://doi.org/10.1177/1464420716638111
5. Singla, Y. K., Chhibber, R., Bansal, H., & Kalra, A. (2015). Wear Behavior of Aluminum Alloy
6061-Based Composites Reinforced with SiC, Al2O3, and Red Mud: A Comparative Study. JOM, 
67(9), 2160–2169. http://doi.org/10.1007/s11837-015-1365-0
6. Singla, Y. K., Chhibber, R., & Dutta, B. K. (2016). Influence of Friction Welding Parameters on
the Tensile Strength of Bimetallic Weld Joints. MMU Journal of Management & Technology, 
1(1), 41–49. ISSN: 2455-4456.
7. Singh, G., Saini, D., & Chandra, L. (2015). On the evaluation of a cyclone separator for cleaning of
open volumetric air receiver. Applied Thermal Engineering.
8. Singh, G., Saini, D., Yadav, N., Sarma, R., Chandra, L., & Shekhar, R. (2015). Dust Deposition
Mechanism and Cleaning Strategy for Open Volumetric Air Receiver Based Solar Tower Sub-
systems. Energy Procedia, 69, 2081–2089. http://doi.org/10.1016/j.egypro.2015.03.222

9. Sharma, B., Chhibber, R., & Mehta, R. (2016). Effect of surface treatment of nanoclay on the
mechanical properties of epoxy/glass fiber/clay nanocomposites. Composite Interfaces, 0(0), 1–18. 
ISSN: 0927-6440. http://doi.org/10.1080/09276440.2016.1165522
1. Choudhary, B., & Pratiher, B. (2015). Numerical Studies of a Nonlinear Flexible Rotating System
Under Harmonic Ground Motion. In P. Pennacchi (Ed.), Proceedings of the 9th IFToMM 
International Conference on Rotor Dynamics (pp. 1677–1687). Springer International 
Publishing. http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-06590-8_138
2. Kumar, R., Dixit, A., Chandra, L., Vyas, S., & Kumar, R. (2016). An experimental set-up for
measuring thermodynamic response of low temperature phase change materials. In 2016 IEEE First 
International Conference on Control, Measurement and Instrumentation (CMI) (pp. 107–
109). ISBN: 9781479917693. http://doi.org/10.1109/CMI.2016.7413720
1. 
 
Patidar, D., Pardeshi, R., Chandra, L., & Shekhar, R. (2016). Solar Convective Furnace for Heat 
Treatment of Aluminium. In A. K. Saha, D. Das, R. Srivastava, P. K. Panigrahi, & K. 
Muralidhar (Eds.), Fluid Mechanics and Fluid Power – Contemporary Research: 
Proceedings of the 5th International and 41st National Conference on FMFP 2014. New Delhi: 
Springer India Pvt. Ltd. ISBN: 9788132227410.
1. Alok, A. K., Banerjee, S., & Uma Sankar, S. (2015). Re-examining sin 2β and Δmd from evolution
of View the MathML B0d mesons with decoherence. Physics Letters B. 749, 94-97. 
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.physletb.2015.07.061
2. Alok, A. K., Banerjee, S., Kumar, D., & Uma Sankar, S. (2016). Flavor signatures of isosinglet
vector-like down quark model. Nuclear Physics B, 906, 321–341. 
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.nuclphysb.2016.03.012
3. Alok, A. K., Banerjee, S., Kumar, D., Sankar, S. U., & London, D. (2015). New-physics signals
of a model with a vector-singlet up-type quark. Physical Review D, 92(1), 013002. 
http://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevD.92.013002
4. Banerjee, S., Alok, A. K., Srikanth, R., & Hiesmayr, B. C. (2015). A quantum-information
theoretic analysis of three-flavor neutrino oscillations. The European Physical Journal C, Particles 
and Fields, 75(10). http://doi.org/10.1140/epjc/s10052-015-3717-x
5. Banerjee, S., Alok, A. K., & MacKenzie, R. (2016). Quantum correlations in B and K meson
systems. The European Physical Journal Plus, 131(5), 1–8. 
http://doi.org/10.1140/epjp/i2016-16129-0
6. Dixit, A., Ramchandran, B., kuo, Y., & Lawes, G. (2015). Magnetic Structure and Thermal
Conductivity of FeVO4 Multiferroic. IEEE Transactions on Magnetics, 51(11), Article #: 
2504304. http://doi.org/10.1109/TMAG.2015.2447155
7. Dutta, S., Adhikari, B., & Banerjee, S. (2016). A graph theoretical approach to states and unitary
operations. Quantum Information Processing, 1–20. ISSN: 1573-1332. 
http://doi.org/10.1007/s11128-016-1250-y
8. Omkar, S., Srikanth, R., & Banerjee, S. (2015). Quantum code for quantum error characterization.
Physical Review A, 91(5), 052309. http://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevA.91.052309

9. Sharma, V., Shukla, C., Banerjee, S., & Pathak, A. (2015). Controlled bidirectional remote state
preparation in noisy environment: a generalized view. Quantum Information Processing, 1–24. 
http://doi.org/10.1007/s11128-015-1038-5
10. Sinha, M., & Sedrakian, A. (2015). Upper critical field and (non)-superconductivity of magnetars.
Physics of Particles and Nuclei, 46(5), 826–829. http://doi.org/10.1134/S1063779615050275
11. Thapliyal, K., Banerjee, S., & Pathak, A. (2016). Tomograms for open quantum systems: In
(finite) dimensional optical and spin systems. Annals of Physics, 366, 148–167.ISSN: 0003-4916. 
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.aop.2016.01.010
12. Thapliyal, K., Banerjee, S., Pathak, A., Omkar, S., & Ravishankar, V. (2015). Quasiprobability
distributions in open quantum systems: Spin-qubit systems. Annals of Physics, 362, 261–286. 
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.aop.2015.07.029
13. Tiwari, B., Dixit, A., Naik, R., Lawes, G., & Rao, M. S. R. (2015). Magnetostructural and
magnetocaloric properties of bulk LaCrO3 system. Materials Research Express, 2(2), 026103. 
http://doi.org/10.1088/2053-1591/2/2/026103
14. Tiwari, B., Goyal, R., Jha, R., Dixit, A., & Awana, V. P. S. (2015). PdTe: a 4.5 K type-II BCS
superconductor. 
Superconductor 
Science 
and 
Technology, 
28(5), 
055008.
15. Tripathi, B., Tripathi, G., Dixit, A., & Vijay, Y. K. (2015). Luminescence tuning in a ZnS:Mn
system by C6+ (80 MeV) ion beam irradiation. Radiation Effects and Defects in Solids, 0(0), 1–8. 
http://doi.org/10.1080/10420150.2014.983106
accelerated Dirac qubit. arXiv:1511.03029 [hep-Th, Physics:quant-Ph]. Retrieved from 
http://arxiv.org/abs/1511.03029
2. Banerjee, S., Alok, A. K., Omkar, S., & Srikanth, R. (2016). Characterization of Unruh Channel
in the context of Open Quantum Systems. arXiv:1603.05450 [hep-Th, Physics:quant-Ph]. 
http://arxiv.org/abs/1603.05450
3. Bhattacharya, S., Banerjee, S., & Pati, A. K. (2016). Effect of non-Markovianity on the dynamics
of 
coherence, 
concurrence 
and 
Fisher 
information. 
arXiv:1601.04742 
[quant-Ph].
4. Dutta, S., Adhikari, B., Banerjee, S., & Srikanth, R. (2016). Bipartite separability and non-local
quantum 
operations 
on 
graphs. 
arXiv:1601.07704 
[math-Ph, 
Physics:quant-Ph].
5. Kumari, V., Tripathi, B., & Dixit, A. (2015). beta phase manganese dioxide nanorods Synthesis and
characterization 
for 
supercapacitor 
applications. 
arXiv:1510.00802 
[cond-Mat].
6. Omkar, S., Srikanth, R., Banerjee, S., & Shaji, A. (2015). The two-qubit amplitude damping
channel: characterization using quantum stabilizer codes. arXiv:1511.03368 [quant-Ph]. 
http://arxiv.org/abs/1511.03368
7. Omkar, S., Banerjee, S., Srikanth, R., & Alok, A. K. (2016, In Press). The Unruh effect
1. Alok, A. K., Banerjee, S., & Sankar, S. U. (2015). Effect of decoherence on clean determination of
sin 2β and Δmd. In Proceedings of Science. Vienna, Austria: SISSA. 
http://pos.sissa.it/archive/conferences/234/578/EPS-HEP2015_578.pdf
2. Alok, A. K., Banerjee, S., Sankar, S. U., Kumar, D., & London, D. (2015). New-physics signals
of a model with an isosinglet vector-like t’ quark. In Proceedings of Science. Vienna, Austria: 
SISSA. http://pos.sissa.it/archive/conferences/234/579/EPS-HEP2015_579.pdf

Awards & Recognitions
2. 
Amit Kumar Mishra, Assistant Professor, Department of Biology, IIT Jodhpur, has been 
selected for the "Young Researcher Award" in the category of (Cellular and Molecular 
Neuroscience) of the Venus International Foundation Faculty Awards (VIFFA) 2015. This 
award will be presented to him at the VIFFA 2015 event.
3. 
Amit Kumar Mishra, Assistant Professor, Department of Biology, IIT Jodhpur, has been 
conferred the 2014 Young Scientist Award by the Biotech Research Society of India (BRSI). This 
honour was conferred on him during the International Conference on New Horizons in 
Biotechnology at CSIR-National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology, 
Thiruvananthapuram, held during 22-25 November 2015.
4. 
For his research contributions, the New York Academy of Sciences has launched Amit 
Kumar Mishra’s profile on their website.
2. 
Mahesh Kumar, Assistant Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, has been selected 
by the Materials Research Society of India (MRSI) to receive the MRSI Medal for 2016. The 
medal will be presented to him during the Annual General Meeting of MRSI to be held at 
Jorhat, Assam, during 18-20 February 18-20 2016. The MRSI is an interdisciplinary society 
founded in 1989 by Bharat Ratna Professor C. N. R. Rao, who is dedicated to the field of 
materials science and engineering in India. The Society is committed to stimulate and 
integrate research in the field of materials for rapid industrial progress in the country.
3. 
Shree Prakash Tiwari, Assistant Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering has been 
elevated as Senior Member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (SMIEEE) 
as an honour to his contribution to the profession.
2. 
Ashutosh K. Alok, Assistant Professor, and Subhashish Banerjee, Assistant Professor and 
Head of the Department received international recognition for their work on Probing 
Signatures of Quantum Gravity. They, along with S. Uma Sankar (IIT Bombay) are working 
on “Probing signatures of quantum gravity like background at LHCb and B-factories”. This 
work opened the doors for probing some very fundamental aspects of nature such as 
quantum gravity background by measuring observables in flavor physics which are mainly 
used to probe new physics models beyond Standard Model. Their work “Re-examining sin 2β 
and md from evolution of B0d mesons with decoherence” has been published in Physics Letters B, 
a renowned journal in the field of particle physics. Also, the work was presented at the 
prestigious European Physical Society’s Conference on High Energy Physics, held at the 
University of Vienna, Austria in July 2015.

accompanied by 6 teachers from various regions of the North-East. A well-defined
Outreach
The following Outreach activities have been undertaken by the Faculty Members
at IIT Jodhpur during the FY 2015-16.
Undergraduate Research Initiative
IIT Jodhpur started the Undergraduate Research Initiative (UGRI) Program in
2011 with the objective of promoting research and innovation among undergraduate 
students. This program is organised every summer; it helps participating students 
improve their professional knowledge and skills. Students from across the country were 
encouraged to participate in the UGRI Program. 18 students participated in the UGRI 
2015. Students were selected on the basis of their academic achievements and the merit 
of the research proposal submitted by them, be it an analytical one or an experimental 
one. It began on 11 May 2015 and ended on 10 July 2015. Selected students were 
provided accommodation in Students’ Hostel at IIT Jodhpur. During this period, the 
participating students were offered a token financial assistance to meet their basic 
expenses. During this 10 week program, the students worked on their projects under the 
mentorship of Faculty Members at IIT Jodhpur. 
 
 
Ishaan Vikaas Program
A special program in the name of Ishaan Vikaas, an initiative of the Ministry of
Human Resource Development, has been launched as a comprehensive plan to bring 
selected school girls and boys, from the North-Eastern states into close contact with the 
IITs and IISERs during their vacation periods with the objective of opening up the 
young minds and giving them a broad overview of the future paths which they would 
like to traverse. They should get a wider perspective on how they can take a much more 
proactive role in shaping their own future. At the same time, as a part of Ishaan Vikaas, 
an academic activity will take place to encourage internship for the engineering college 
students of North-Eastern states in various institutes of national importance.
From this year onwards, IIT Jodhpur has taken part in this Government’s
mission to give whole-hearted support for the success of this Program. The Institute has 
organized the Program twice this year, during summer and winter.
During this summer, about 40 school children, accompanied by 7 teachers and 5
B.Tech. Students, accompanied by one Faculty Member have visited IIT Jodhpur for two 
weeks (30 June - 9 July, 2015) and eight weeks, respectively. In this context, a schedule 
has been prepared for the school children, while each visiting B.Tech. Student has been 
assigned a well-defined research problem under the mentorship, guidance and 
supervision of the Faculty Members of respective department.
During 12-24 December 2015, the Institute has hosted about 47 school children

Participants of Ishaan Vikas Program
Rashtriya Avishkar Abhiyan
Rashtriya Avishkar Abhiyan (RAA) is a program of the Ministry of Human
Resource Development (MHRD) in pursuance of the focus on connecting school-based 
knowledge to life outside the school and making learning of Science and Mathematics a 
joyful and meaningful activity, and to bring focus on innovation and use of technology.
The Rashtriya Avishkar Abhiyan (RAA) is a convergent framework that aims at
nurturing a spirit of inquiry and creativity, love for Science and Mathematics and 
effective use of technology amongst children and encourage those who show an 
inclination and talent for these subjects to be encouraged and supported to heights of 
academic excellence and research.
The activities of Rashtriya Avishkar Abhiyan (RAA) are organized by Ananya
Debnath, Faculty Member In-charge, with the support of Heads of Departments, Faculty 
Members, and Staff Members.
Under Rashtriya Avishkar Abhiyan initiative, an “Open House for School
Students” was organized on 21 November 2015 at IIT Jodhpur, which included public 
lectures and laboratory visits. The objectives of this event were to enable students in 
getting motivated and engaged in Science, Mathematics and Technology; and to provide 
an exposure to students, of national needs and current science. Total 79 students, 
escorted by 2 teachers each from their school, participated from 7 Schools in Jodhpur.
Ananya Debnath, Assistant Professor, Department of
Chemistry and Faculty-in-Charge for Rashtriya Avishkar
Abhiyan, introducing the program
Vivek Vijay, Assistant Professor, Department of Matematics
addressing the enthusiasts from schools

Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay, Assistant Professor, Department of
Computer Science & Engineering explaining computer
technology used in movies
Ritu Gupta, Asssistant Professor, Department of Chemistry,
showing structural colour of butterfly to the school students
Lecture Series
The Institute invites accomplished persons from different walks of life to expand
and enrich the horizons of its Faculty Members, Staff Members and Students. These 
invitations are grouped under the following categories, namely:
1. Distinguished Lectures, 
2. MEA - IITJ Distinguished Lectures, and 
3. Extra-Mural Lectures.
Details of the lectures organized in the Institute in this year are, as below:
The Distinguished Lecture series brings in a meaningful exchange of ideas from
outside to the Institute with eminent scholars of Humanities, Sciences and Technology.
A distinguished lecture on “The Development of Temple Architecture
In collaboration with the Ministry of External Affairs (Government of India), the
Institute launched the “MEA – IIT Jodhpur Distinguished Lecture Series”, where current 
and former Ambassadors of India spend time at the Institute to share their experiences 
and understanding of India from outside India.
The Institute, continuing its tradition of MEA-IITJ Distinguished
Professionals with standing and missionary zeal, who dedicated their lifetime in
specific domains, are invited to the Institute to share their career paths - the trials and 
tribulations, and the way forward for the current generation seeking to tread such 
challenges.

During this year, on 1 February 2016, Professor Amitabha Ghosh,
Platinum Jubilee Senior Scientist, The National Academy of Sciences, India, 
and Former Director of IIT Kharagpur, delivered a lecture on “Gravitation 
Inertia and the Universe: The amazing consequences of a relook into the 
Newton’s laws”.
Besides the above, the following Special Lectures were witnessed in the Institute
during this period.
IIT Jodhpur and Department of Management Studies, Jai Narayan
Vyas University, Jodhpur came together to organize a special lecture by 
Professor Pankaj Chandra, Member, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur and 
Former Director, IIM Bangalore, on 23 October 2015. Professor Chandra 
spoke on “Pivoting Indian Manufacturing Policy Differently”.
A special public lecture was delivered by Jerry M. Hultin, Chairman,
Global Initiative for Academic Networks (GIAN) in higher education is a
program of the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) to invite 
accomplished scientists and entrepreneurs living abroad, to give short courses at 
premier Institutes in India. This scheme is relevant especially for new IITs facing faculty 
shortage. Under this program, the Faculty Members of the Institute organized short-
term courses as below. 
1. 
Synthesis and Characterization of Materials for Energy Storage Devices
Dates: 
12-16 December 2015
Host Faculty: 
Ritu Gupta
Foreign Faculty: 
Timothy S. Fisher, Purdue University, USA
2. 
Robot Modeling and Control, and Applications to Aerial Robots
Dates: 
22-28 December 2015
Host Faculty: 
Suril Vijakumar Shah and Sudipto Mukherjee (IIT Delhi)
Foreign Faculty: 
Vijay Kumar, University of Pennsylvania, USA
3. 
Fundamentals of Applied Vehicle Dynamics and Chassis Systems
Dates: 
12-23 January 2016
Host Faculty: 
B. Ravindra
Foreign Faculty: 
Raghu Enchempati, Kettering University, USA
4. 
Advanced Digital VLSI Circuit Design
Dates: 
7-18 March 2016
Host Faculty: 
Suresh Gundapaneni
Foreign Faculty: 
Manoj Sachdev, University of Waterloo, Canada

This year, the following workshops and conferences were organized in the Institute.
1. 
A workshop for “Discussion and Finalization of DPR for an Experimental CSP Plant 
at IIT Jodhpur” was organized by jointly by IIT Jodhpur, Indian Oil Corporation 
Limited, and Bharat Heavy Electrical Limited, during 8-9 July 2015 at IIT Jodhpur.
2. 
The 9th edition of the National Frontiers of Engineering Symposium (9NatFoE), the 
annual flagship event of the National Academy of Engineering (INAE), was hosted 
at IIT Jodhpur during 5-7 June 2015.
3. 
National Conference on Solar Thermal Energy Technologies was organized during 
26-28 February 2016 at IIT Jodhpur. Technical Co-Sponsor was Ministry of New and 
Renewable Energy, Government of India.
4. 
National Conference on Semiconductor Materials and Devices was jointly organized 
by IIT Jodhpur, Defence Lab Jodhpur and Semiconductor Society of India at IIT 
Jodhpur during 4-6 March 2016.

INSTITUTE EVENTS
Participants in Yoga session
Organizers with Yoga instructors
The National Flag was hoisted at the other three Temporary Campuses earlier in
the morning: Academic Campus, and the GPRA and BSNL Residential Campuses.

Inauguration of the first building at permanent campus of
IITJ
Cultural program
The program ended with a Vote of Thanks by Coordinator (Faculty) followed by
High Tea.

Vigilance Awareness Week was observed at IIT Jodhpur during 26-31 October
2015. It concluded with a program on Preventive Vigilance as a Tool of Good 
Governance, where all the Offices at IIT Jodhpur presented procedures followed by 
them in various works. As a part of their presentations, the issues, challenges and 
bottlenecks faced by them at different stages were discussed, and some suggestions to 
overcome were received from the participating members to mitigate confusions and 
delays in various dealings.
On this occasion, Ridhi Aggarwal, Ph.D. Student (Computer Science &
Engineering) received a token of appreciation for her presentation on the topic of the 
program. The program was attended by the Faculty Members, Staff Members and 
Students. The program concluded with a pledge taken by the members present.
Ridhi Aggarwal receiving prize 
Faculty and Staff members taking the vigilance pledge
The Constitution Day was celebrated at IIT Jodhpur on 26 November 2015. On
this occasion, the Faculty Members and Staff Members of IIT Jodhpur came together. 
The program was introduced by Mr. S. Balachandra Iyer, Registrar. The Preamble of the 
Constitution of India was read out by Deepak Fulwani, Assistant Professor, Department 
of Electrical Engineering, and Kshema Prakash, Deputy Librarian, in English and Hindi, 
respectively.
Introduction to the Program 
Reading of the Preamble of the Constitution

Tree plantation by Smt. & Sh. M.S. Singhvi
Tree plantation by Professor & Mrs. Prawal Sinha
Tree plantation by Professor N. M. Bhandari
Tree plantation by Staff Members of IIT Jodhpur
The event was attended by Faculty Members, Staff Members, and Students of IIT
Jodhpur, and 20 Advocates of High Court of Rajasthan, Jodhpur.

FACILITIES
Our Campus
Present Campuses
At present, IIT Jodhpur operates from two sets of temporary campuses, namely: 
 
Temporary Academic Campus: It operates independently from the premises of MBM 
Engineering College in Jodhpur, situated on the Old Residency Road, Ratanada, at a 
distance of about 4 km from the Jodhpur Railway Station and 3 kms from the Jodhpur 
Airport. 
 
Temporary Residential Campuses: IIT Jodhpur has two residential campuses located at 
(1) GPRA Residential Campus, New Pali Road Jodhpur, and (2) BSNL Residential 
Campus, Subhash Nagar, Jodhpur. GPRA Campus is located at New Pali Road, about 17 
kms from the academic campus and provides accommodation to nearly 600 B.Tech. boy 
and all girl students. Also, it provides accommodation to nearly 150 other members of 
IIT community, including Faculty Members, Staff Members, and their family members. 
On the other hand, BSNL Campus is located in the heart of the city and provides 
accommodation to nearly 150 male M.Tech. and Ph.D. students. Limited housing is 
available on this campus for married students. 
 
TEMPORARY ACADEMIC CAMPUS 
Currently, the academic campus of IIT Jodhpur comprises of three blocks, namely: 
(i) 
Academic Block 1: It houses several laboratories, the library, a computer center and 
offices of some Faculty Members.
(ii) Academic Block 2: It comprises of lecture halls, classrooms, language lab and
multimedia lab.
(iii) Administrative Block: It comprises the Directorate, administrative offices, technical
laboratories and offices of some Faculty Members.
In addition, the academic campus consists of some temporary structures used for
different purposes such as laboratories and office spaces. IIT Jodhpur has established 
good academic facilities for teaching and research. The Institute has well equipped 
Laboratories and a Library.

Laboratories and Research Facilities
IIT Jodhpur has established state-of-the-art teaching and research laboratories.
These advanced laboratories have machinery and devices of international standard, 
which are actively used in research. The major laboratories include Heat Transfer, Fluid 
Mechanics, Electronic Circuit Laboratory, Robotics, Electro Mechanical Energy 
Conversion Laboratory and Solar Radiation. 
 
Library
The Library has a collection of about 12,000 volumes of books comprising of
textbooks, research and reference books, monographs etc. In addition, the Library 
provides access to a range of electronic resources from professional and scholarly 
societies and publishers, such as American Society for Mechanical Engineers, Institute 
for Electrical & Electronics Engineers, and Association for Computing Machinery, to 
name a few. Also, it subscribes to popular scientific, research and archival databases, 
like SciFinder, MathSciNet, JStor, Prowess, and EBSCO Academic Search. 
 
The Library operates in a computerized environment with automated member &
circulation services, and digital library services. Memberships, circulation, reference & 
information service, inter library loans & document lending services, current awareness 
service, digital library service are some of the important services that are presently 
offered.
TEMPORARY RESIDENTIAL CAMPUSES 
GPRA Residential Campus
The major residential area is in a scenic campus located on New Pali Road, Vivek
Vihar, Jodhpur, about 20 kms from the railway station. The campus is well guarded and 
equipped with basic amenities including Wi-Fi, recreational rooms and a computer 
center. Also, the residential campus provides accommodation for Faculty Members and 
Staff Members of the Institute. Transport facility is available between the Institute and 
Residential campus. 
 
BSNL Residential Campus
The second residential campus is located in BSNL Colony on Pal Link Road in
Subhash Nagar. Basic common facilities are available at BSNL colony. Transport facility 
is available between the Institute and BSNL Campus. All male M.Tech. and Ph.D. and 
some married students are given accommodation in this residential campus. 
 
Facilities 
Following are some basic facilities made available in the residential areas: 
(a) ATM & Bank: The residential area has a branch of SBI (State Bank of India) as well as
an ATM of SBI, enabling students to make transactions with ease. There are several 
other banks namely UCO, HDFC and SBBJ close to the academic area.
(b) Canteen: There are two sets of canteens, one at Residential Campus and the other
one in Academic Campus. They provide hygienic food, fresh juices and various 
other snacks for the students.

(c) Gymnasium: A well-equipped gymnasium is present in the Residential Campuses,
and is operational during 5 am to 10 pm. Students can avail these facilities to stay 
healthy and to maintain their physique.
(d) Dining Facility: There are two sets of Dining Facilities, one in the Residential
Campuses and the other one in the Academic Campus. The mess offers good quality 
food, regularly monitored by the Wardens for hygiene and nutritional values, and 
provided at affordable cost.
(e) Shops: Shops catering to the various primary needs of students are present near the
Academic Campus. A small outlet is functional inside GPRA campus for urgent 
petty purchases.
(f) Transport Services: The Institute has a bus service running between the Residential
and Academic Campuses at regular intervals, exclusively for the Students of the 
Institute.
(g) Entertainment Room: Every hostel consists of recreation facilities (like TV Rooms,
where students can enjoy matches and watch movies) along with indoor games (like 
table tennis and carroms).
Medical Services
Both the Residential Campuses have Health Centers for providing routine health
services. Due to geographical locations of the two Campuses and the type of the 
residents, Health Center at GPRA Campus provides services to the patients round the 
clock, while medical services are available at BSNL Campus for limited hours in the 
evening, typically from 5 pm to 10 pm. In addition to the availability of medical services 
at Residential Campuses, medical assistance is available at Academic Campus. This 
assistance is normally provided from 3 pm to 4.30 pm, when laboratory sessions are in 
full swing and medical assistance may be required. The Institute has its ambulance 
services available round-the-clock.
Besides the Health Centers, the Institute has empanelled five hospitals in the city
of Jodhpur. Two of these hospitals have specializations in ophthalmology and one in 
orthopedic, and the remaining two hospitals are the best known general purpose 
hospitals in the city. For specialized medical attention doctors at our Health Centers 
refer patients to one of these hospitals. In addition to these five hospitals, the city has a 
Medical College and three hospitals run by Government of Rajasthan. Also, the city All 
India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), which is nearly 12 km GPRA Campus and 
nearly 5 km from BSNL Campus. Also, the Institute has constituted a Medical Board 
consisting of Senior Doctors from the Medical College and the AIIMS; advice is taken for 
enhancement of medical services of the Health Centers and in critical medical cases. IIT 
Jodhpur has empanelled two hospitals in Jaipur. These two hospitals are accredited by 
National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare, and patients can be referred to 
these hospitals as per the need of the treatment.

Permanent Campus
In the forthcoming years, IIT Jodhpur will shift to its sprawling state-of-the-art
residential permanent campus on 852 acres of land located ~24 km away from the center 
of the city of Jodhpur on National Highway 65 towards Nagaur, N-NE from the center 
of Jodhpur. The permanent campus has 3 parcels of land. The Institute is finalizing plans 
for adopting one of for harvesting technologies. This new campus has been planned 
meticulously and envisioned to stand as a symbol of academics – simple, but deep.
The foundation stone for the permanent campus was laid on 16 April 2013 by the
Hon. Union Minister for Human Resources Development (Government of India), Dr. M. 
M. Pallam Raju. The Permanent Campus of the Institute is being constructed. Work to 
build Phase 1 of the campus began in March 2015. When complete, it will be the first 
fully-planned technical institute campus in India. More importantly, it will be an 
international exemplar of sustainability with strategies for ensuring NET ZERO 
ENERGY, WATER and WASTE. The other salient features of the Permanent Campus 
are: 
(1) Walking campus, which is pedestrian oriented and bicycle dominant; 
(2) Learning facilitated anywhere, anytime with wireless ICT backbone (including
Multi-media enabled learning spaces with flexible, shared public spaces);
(3) Thermally comfortable smart buildings with GRIHA 4/5 star compliant buildings
and GRIHA LD benchmark campus (including dense desert settlement morphology,

low height buildings (up to a maximum of 3 storeys) built with low embodied 
energy materials, and improved local and traditional methods);
(4) Plantation with native species, soil stabilization, protection from dusty wind to arrest
erosion, desertification, and building-up soil moisture over time;
(5) Rain water harvesting, and water reduction and sewage recycling, together greening
the site over time; and
(6) Segregated wastes and customized recycling
Entrance structure of IIT Jodhpur permanent campus
The campus will have housing for Faculty Members and Staff Members, along
with a school (up to Class XII), bank, post office and market. Also, it will have a Primary 
Health Center with hotline connections to reach the top hospitals of the city, like the All 
India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur, and a fully equipped ambulance service. A 
large parcel of the Permanent Campus (of about 182 acres) is set aside for the 
development a TECHNOLOGY PARK to strengthen institute-industry interactions.
Faculty Member housing
The first migrations into the campus are likely to take place during October 2016.

Computer Center
The Institute has a modern Computer Center, presently running on a gigabit
LAN with 1Gbps internet bandwidth. It is the nucleus of all computing activities for 
Students, Staff Members and Faculty Members. Several terminals running on Windows 
and GNU/Linux operating systems across the campus, provide access to several 
licensed software, like MatLab, Mathematica, Cadence, Mentor Graphic, Ansys, PSCAD 
and Solidworks. A 802.11/b/g/n Wi-Fi service is enabled in the academic and 
residential areas. Also, the Computer Centre hosts a High Performance Computing 
cluster for scientific research. 
 
Resources
The Institute has five key resources at the Computer Center, namely, the Linux
Operating System, SVN Server, GIT Server, OwnCloud and various licensed application 
software that are used for academic and research purpose, have made it possible to offer 
the various resources and facilities. 
 
Facilities
The Institute extends three facilities, namely, networking, computing, Internet
access, and LDAP and Active Directory ID facilities through its Computer Center.
Services
The Institute offers services like FTP, LDAP, HPC, Web Hosting, Network
Connectivity, VPN, EduRoam, and News Group, through its Computer Center.

Library
Library supports the teaching and research activities of the Institute by
facilitating acquisition, organization and dissemination of knowledge resources, and 
also by providing library & information services to IIT Jodhpur community. Library is 
located on the ground floor of Academic Block I in the Academic Campus of IIT 
Jodhpur, in room nos. 1001, 1001 Extension, and 1011. Library functions with the 
guidance of Library Committee, which has representatives from all Departments, and 
Student Representatives.
Room No. 1001, AB1 – Stacks 
Circulation Section
Library Collection
The Library has a rich and growing collection of 12,000 volumes of books
(approx.), which include textbooks, and books of general and reference nature. A wide 
range of scholarly journals and databases are also subscribed from various sources for 
the academic and research purposes of the Institute. 
 
Services & Facilities
The following services and facilities are being provided by the Library to its
registered users.
1. Member & Circulation Services 
2. Orientation & User Education 
3. Borrowing Facility 
4. Reference & Information Service 
5. Course Reserves 
6. Current Awareness Service 
7. Inter Library Loan & Document Supply 
8. Digital Library Facility & Services
Digital resources are accessible through the Library website, which is a
comprehensive site maintained by Library. They include the Library subscribed 
resources, online catalogue, lists of useful resources accessible in the open domain like 
the open access journals, books, repositories, video lectures, open courseware. These 
resources are continuously updated.

S. No. Description Statistics
1. Books added Total 511
b. Number of volumes added 511
a. Fulltext resources 31
3. Document Supply & Inter Library Loan service requested fulfilled Total 149
b. Books arranged on Inter Library Loans 3
a. Number of book check-outs 12022
c. Number of book renewals 578
Library also maintains a portal for hosting bibliographic listing of the Faculty
Publications. Additionally, a course guide portal has also been developed and 
maintained by Library, wherein, resources i.e., books available in Library, subscribed 
journals, resources accessible in open domain are listed and linked, course-wise. This 
platform is very useful for the students in finding topical and course-wise resources. 
Library also provides remote access to the subscribed scholarly resources and anti-
plagiarism checking.
Room No. 1011, AB1 – Course Reserves & Digital Library
Section
Room No. 1001 Extension, AB1 – Reading Room
Appearing below are some vital statistics of Library for FY 2015-16:
4. 
Circulation Transactions 
Total 24,962
Details of E-Resources 
 
Library has licensed the following electronic resources in this year, for teaching,
research and private study of its academic community. 
 
A. Fulltext Resources
1. Association of Computing Machinery Digital Library 
2. American Chemical Society Journals 
3. American Institute of Physics Journals 
4. American Physical Society Journals

5. American Society for Mechanical Engineers Digital Library 
6. Bioinformatics Journal 
7. EBSCO Academic Search Complete 
8. Human Molecular Genetics Journal 
9. IEL (IEEE) Online Digital Library 
10. Interdisciplinary Studies in Literature and Environment Journal 
11. Journal of Biological Chemistry Journal 
12. Journal of Consciousness Studies 
13. Journal of Immunology 
14. JStor Archives 
15. MIT CogNet Journals 
16. Nature Journal 
17. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 
18. Quantum Information and Computation Journal 
19. Royal Society of Chemistry Journals 
20. Science Online 
21. Elsevier Science Journals 
22. Society of Industrial & Applied Mathematics Journals 
23. Springer Journals
B. Research Databases
1. CMIE Prowess 
2. EPW India Times Series 
3. IndiaStat 
4. MathSciNet 
5. SciFinder
The Library is also a core member of the eShodhSindhu: Consortium for Higher
Education Electronic Resources, operated by INFLIBNET Center, Gandhinagar, thorugh 
which subscriptions to major resources is fulfilled. Also, the Library is a member of 
DEveloping Libraries NETwork (DELNET), New Delhi through which the Library meets 
its Inter Library Loan requirements. 
 
 
Library also subscribes to Antiplagiarism Tool and Remote Access Tool for its
users. Orientation sessions and Library Instruction sessions for Students are conducted 
by the Library Staff from time to time.
Along with providing regular library facilities and services, the library staff
members are also engaged in rendering services in preparation of Institute’s 
publications like the Annual Report, Institute Newsletter; and also actively contribute in 
maintaining the Institute’s website and repositories.

Sl. No. Name of the Laboratory
Laboratories
IIT Jodhpur has established good number of teaching and research laboratories
and facilities, which aid in elevating the students from minimalist academic concerns to 
inquisitive world of scientific arena. These teaching and research laboratories help 
Faculty Members and Students work for better future by supplementing and improving 
existing technologies and bodies of knowledge, using competence, creativity and 
imagination. Appearing below is a department-wise list of laboratories established in IIT 
Jodhpur whose details are given in the following pages.
1. 
Advanced Biosciences and Neuroscience laboratory
2. 
Chemical Biology laboratory
3. 
Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory
4. 
Protein Engineering Laboratory
1. 
Chemistry Laboratory
1. 
Multimedia Laboratory
2. 
Networking Technologies Laboratory
1. 
Control / DSP / Microprocessor Laboratory
2. 
Electronic Circuit Laboratory
3. 
Instrumentation & Communication Laboratory
4. 
Power Electronics Laboratory
5. 
Robotics Laboratory
1. 
Digital Language Laboratory
1. 
Advance Manufacturing Laboratory
2. 
Central Workshop
3. 
Dynamics & Vibration Laboratory
4. 
Electro Mechanical Energy Conversion Laboratory
5. 
Fluid Mechanics & Heat Transfer Laboratory
6. 
High Temperature Solar Thermal Laboratory
7. 
Materials Testing & Solid Mechanics Laboratory
8. 
Renewable Energy Laboratory
9. 
Solar Radiation Laboratory
1. 
Biomolecular Information Processing Laboratory
2. 
Magnetic Property Measurement System (MPMS / SQUID) Laboratory
3. 
Materials Analysis Laboratory
4. 
Physics Laboratory

Department of Biology
The Department of Biology has the following laboratories for teaching and
research purposes.
1. Advanced Biosciences and Neuroscience laboratory
The Advanced Biosciences and Neuroscience laboratory is a part of the center of
excellence in biologically inspired systems science (BISS). This laboratory provides 
cellular and molecular investigative tools for UG and PG teaching and research in 
neuroscience. Cell culture studies are utilised along with molecular biology, 
biochemistry and microscopy approaches to elucidate the molecular mechanisms 
underlying molecular and cellular interactions underlying inflammation and repair. 
Inflammation is a key component of many diseases including traumatic brain injury, 
cancer, multiple sclerosis, stroke, asthma, Parkinson’s disease and Alzheimer’s disease. 
Inflammation is characterized by accumulation and proliferation of innate immune cells. 
This is followed by clearance of dead cells and cellular debris along with enhanced 
expression of molecular mediators called cytokines and chemokines, which cause 
migration and proliferation of immune cells and may even lead to cell death. 
Understanding the mechanisms by which inflammation occurs, and the molecular 
mediators involved in this process, is necessary for identification of potential therapeutic 
targets.
2. Chemical Biology Laboratory
Organisms at the cellular level possess a well-established protein quality control
mechanism which the lab team is trying to understand at present. The role of E3 
ubiquitin ligases was reported in such mechanisms so far. Our laboratory is dedicated to

a qualitative research in the field of protein quality control mechanisms. We have 
recently found that a HECT domain containing E3 ubiquitin ligase E6-AP helps in 
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis diseases suppression through its association with the 
misfolded protein aggregates formed by SOD1 mutants. Such findings support that an 
E3 ligase can have a capability to clear the misfolded protein aggregation. However, 
while appreciating the incredible efficiency of cellular systems, we must recognize the 
crucial role of chaperones which are supposed to work preferentially compared to E3 
ubiquitin ligases in order to refold the misfolded proteins, and hence conserving the 
energy utilized during the translation of those proteins. Various examples made us think 
that we could explore the role of both the chaperones and E3 ubiquitin ligases in the 
clearance of misfolded proteins. Therefore, now we are working not only with E3 
ubiquitin ligases but also with the chaperones and even in their functional association to 
confer an efficient quality control mechanism to the cell. 
 
 
3. Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory
The Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory at IIT Jodhpur, in addition to
serving various undergraduate and post-graduate courses, undertakes research in the 
areas of bioenergy and bioremediation. Researchers in the lab investigate on waste to 
energy conversion processes with an aim to develop sustainable biotechnological 
solutions to water pollution and energy. At present, successful bioremediation processes 
for nitrate and chromium(VI) contaminated wastes have been developed. Also, research 
is underway for the development of low cost Microbial Carbon Capture cells for power 
generation and algae cultivation. In addition to this, researchers in the lab have been 
successful in isolating novel yeasts, the potential biodiesel producing candidates.
4. Protein Engineering Laboratory
The Protein Engineering Laboratory at IIT Jodhpur
is undertaking cutting edge research in developing 
biomaterials based on the understanding of structural and 
functional properties of useful proteins such as collagen. 
The implications of the research could also extend 
towards development of effective biomedical devices and 
implants.

Department of Chemistry
The Department of Chemistry has the following laboratories for teaching and
research purposes.
1. Chemistry Laboratory
The core objective of the chemistry laboratory of IIT Jodhpur is to train students
in scientific methods that would solve real problems at the frontier of our understanding 
of the matter. This is a multi-use laboratory and provides a number of resources to assist 
undergraduate, graduate and Ph.D. students in planning their professional careers after 
completing their academic program at IIT Jodhpur.
This laboratory maintains a broad spectrum of state-of-the-art instrumentation
including basic laboratory set up (for organic, inorganic, organometallic and material 
synthesis), Nitrogen, Oxygen and LPG gas line, Inert atmosphere boxes, vacuum line 
work, fume hood pH, conductivity, BOD, COD, meters, Rotary evaporator, Vacuum 
pumps, centrifuges, High pressure reactor system, Chiller, microbalances, Orbital 
Shaker, GC, HPLC and Radleys ready reactor. In the academic year 2012-2013, the lab 
procured equipment such as Polarimeter, Melting point Instrument, Solar Simulator, 
Digital Titrator, Kugalrohr, Electrochemical work stations, and Battery analysers.
A 500 MHz NMR spectrometer with solid state probe is an essential resource,
whose mission is to make a state-of-the-art high field NMR and methods available to 
researchers, providing a place for them to pursue their projects and develop new 
methodologies in NMR methods.
The following are some pictures of Chemistry Laboratory.
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectrometer (500 MHz) 
Chemistry Laboratory

Solar Simulator 
Surface Area Analyzer
Gas Chromatograph 
Reactor Ready

Department of Computer Science & Engineering
The Department of Computer Science & Engineering has the following
laboratories for teaching and research purposes.
1. Multimedia Laboratory
The Media Laboratory provides facilities to carry out work related to E-learning,
image processing, and computer vision. The thrust areas of research in this lab are: 
Semantic analysis of video/image content, video surveillance, human motion analysis, 
document image analysis, content based image retrieval etc. E-learning related activities 
include video recording, audio-video digitization, video editing, etc. In the academic 
year 2011-2012, a research on Indian sign language recognition using Kinect has been 
initiated.
1. Scanners: Book Drive Mini, UMAX Powerlook. 
2. Cameras: Sony 177PD, Sony Camcorder, Cannon 500D VCR: Sony DSR 45AP 
3. Tripods: Manfrotto, iMac.
2. Networking Technologies Laboratory
Networking Technologies Laboratory has been started functioning in the
Academic Year 2011-2012. It aims at enabling undergraduate and graduate students, 
who pursue their interest in the area of computer networks, to understand the concepts 
of computer networks and work with contemporary networking equipment in a realistic 
setting. In addition, the lab aims at providing necessary infrastructure to carry out 
research activities on advanced topics, such as wireless mesh networks, sensor 
networks, communication on power lines, from computer networks. The activities that 
take place in this laboratory are:
1. Prototyping of networking hardware (Example, Ethernet switch, IPV4 router etc.)
using NetFPGA.
2. Developing packet processors using “Click router” modular software framework. 
3. Establishing infrastructure for the mini-Internet, single-hop wireless networks,
multi-hop wireless mesh and sensor networks, power line communication 
networks, home phone line networks.
4. Studies related to the performance analysis of various protocols over on different
network configurations.
5. Development of novel routing algorithms, transport layer mechanisms, and
services for next generation networks.
6. Setting up planet-lab infrastructure (which will essentially become part of the
global distributed computing platform created over the Internet by connecting 
over 500+ sites). This allows the students and researchers not only to understand 
the 
traffic 
patterns 
on 
the 
Internet 
but 
also 
to 
develop 
new
technologies/applications on the Internet for distributed storage, networking 
mapping, peer-to-peer systems, content distribution service, and cloud computing.

Department of Electrical Engineering
The Department of Electrical Engineering has the following laboratories for
teaching and research purposes.
1. Control / DSP / Microprocessor Laboratory
The lab provides software and hardware infrastructure for carrying out
experiments in the field of Control Systems, Microprocessor and DSP. Broadly, the lab 
includes the following experimental setup: 
1. Control Systems
(a) Ball & Beam System from Quanser 
(b) Magnetic Levitation System from Quanser 
(c) Inverted Pendulum System from Quanser 
(d) Software include Scilab / MatLab
2. DSP Lab Equipment 
3. Microprocessor Lab
3. Electronic Circuit Laboratory
In this laboratory the students make and test their analog and digital circuits by
using all kinds of circuit components like diode, transistor, op-amps, and clocks. The lab 
has following equipment:
1. Arbitrary Function Generator from Agilent 
2. Digital Oscilloscope from Agilent 
3. Programmable Power Supply from Scientific 
4. 6 1/2 BIT DMM from Agilent

4. Instrumentation and Communication Laboratory
The mission of Instrumentation and Communication Laboratory is to provide
platform for UG and PG students on research and hands-on learning in Measurement 
and Automation Technology. The state-of-the-art facilities at this laboratory offer 
innovative research opportunities in the astronomical space of communication and real 
time measurement technology. The experienced Lab team nurtures students' talent in 
research and offers an opportunity for developing sophisticated measurement, test, 
control systems, data analysis system and next generation communication technologies.
Students also develop theoretical and practical competence in (i) building
baseband communication circuits, (ii) the application of NI LabVIEW graphical 
programming software, (iii) the PXI based NI RF/Wireless measurement stand, (iv) 
evaluating NI WSNs and LabVIEW software, adjusting a software-defined radio system, 
measuring the parameters of studied antennas and (v) the operation of analog 
modulation schemes. NI-Lab contains software and hardware subsystems which enable 
rapid prototyping and development of embedded systems for various applications. 
Currently, this lab constitutes the following setups:
1. NI ELVIS based Communication Systems and Theory Teaching Stand 
2. Large MIMO Stand for Spectral, Channel Efficiency Studies and New Standard
Development
3. Protocols Stand for WLAN, WiMAX, GPS, RFID, Zigbee, GSM, CDMA, WCDMA,
Bluetooth
4. FPGA-enabled Software Defined Radio Stand for Custom Communication Scheme
Development and Research
5. Basic Analog and Digital Communication Techniques Teaching Stand 
6. Wireless Sensor Networks Stand 
7. Signal Intelligence and Wireless Spectral Monitoring Stand 
8. Wireless Prototype Characterization and Testing Stand 
9. FPGA based protocol development for base-band studies and signal processing 
10. VNA based Antenna Characterization Stand 
11. Fiber Optic Communication Stands 
12. Network Based Manufacturing 
13. USRP (Universal Software Radio Peripheral) based wireless communication

system for physical layer design, record and playback, signal intelligence, 
algorithm validation and more.
14. Network Communication and Manufacturing Control Stand
After three years of its formation, this lab has contributed immensely to the learning and 
research activities at IIT Jodhpur. Communications and Networking Lab, Intelligent 
Instrumentation, System Analysis Techniques and Bio-Sensors courses are being offered 
through this lab for both graduate and undergraduate students. The lab has provided 
the right hardware and software tools for many industrial consultancy projects, 
including the development of DRM/DRM+ IP for digital radio standards, Link budget 
design for Marine environment, DRFM based Radar echo simulator and Blind Signal 
Demodulator. Other projects being done in the lab are development of affordable 
wireless video transmission systems, cognitive radio and Zigbee protocol development. 
 
 
5. Power Electronics Laboratory
The power electronics laboratory is used for undergraduate studies and research in
the area of power electronics based power conversion systems, control systems and 
drives. The laboratory facilitates for faculty and students to conduct research in the areas 
power converters and AC/DC micro-grid. The laboratory is equipped with state-of-art 
test and measurement instruments, converters, power supplies and programming 
boards. Major equipment available in this lab are:
1. High Precision power Analyzer –YOKOGAWA WT3000. 
2. DSO- Tektronix 200MHz (DPO 2024) and 1GHz (DPO 4104B). 
3. Function Generator-Tektronix AFG 3021B. 
4. Power Supply: 0-30V, 1A; 0-32V, 3A; 0-32,
5. Three phase inverter drive. 
6. Three phase inverter stacks. 
7. DC-DC converters. 
8. Differential currents Probes. 
9. Current clamps. 
10. Isolation Transformers. 
11. FPGA training kits and programming boards.
6. Robotics Laboratory
IIT Jodhpur has an advanced robotics laboratory for PG/UG education and
research. The infrastructure includes the following:
1. Vicon Motion Tracking System 
2. Mobile Manipulator comprising of Barret
WAM ARM mounted on a PowerBot Mobile 
robot platform
3. Pioneer P3-DX mobile robots - 10 units 
4. Turtlebot 
5. Wheel Chair 
6. Force Plate

7. Infrastructure for Mobile Robotics - Navigation, Path-planning, SLAM 
8. Dynamic and Kinematic Control problem, Redundancy Resolution, Inverse
Kinematics of Manipulators and Mobile Manipulators, Visual Servoing, and
9. GAIT Analysis and Robot Assisted Rehabilitation

Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
The Department of Humanities and Social Sciences uses the Language Lab
teaching and practice of language.
1. Digital Language Laboratory
The Digital Language Laboratory provides resources, facility, and support for
foreign language instruction and learning to the entire student community of IIT 
Jodhpur. The lab is the multilingual computing and assessment center of the Institute. 
The lab team explores and implements methods through which multimedia technology 
renders a more authentic experience to learning a foreign language. Here, for language 
learning purposes one could seek recourse to technologies like the Internet and 
interactive video, audiovisual techniques, multi-modal iconic approach, and speech 
recognition. The exercises include listening and comprehension, grammar-based 
exercises, placement solutions, and mastery tests. The main features of this facility 
include Smart Class Symposium LL from Robotel and New Dynamic English Learning 
Program from Dyned International. All the facilities at the Digital Language Laboratory 
are proficiency-oriented, standard-based, and nurture the students’ enthusiasm for 
gaining global exposure and proficiency in a foreign language.

Department of Mechanical Engineering
The Department of Mechanical Engineering has the following laboratories for
teaching and research purposes.
1. Advance Manufacturing Laboratory
In the Advance Manufacturing Laboratory, CAD model of object is prepared using
3D modelling software like ProE, SolidWorks, and Catia. FE analysis is carried out using 
Analysis software like Ansys, Nastran/Patran and precision manufacturing is carried 
out using CNC programing/CNC machines and Rapid Prototyping Machine/ 3D 
Printer. The manufactured components are characterised for mechanical behaviour 
using UTM, Hardness testers, Impact testers etc. The role of CNC machines in increasing 
flexibility and precision of the product to be manufactured and, increasing productivity 
are illustrated. The Advance Manufacturing Laboratory of institute is equipped with 
following facilities:
1. CAD Section 
2. Precision Machining Section 
3. Rapid Prototyping Section 
4. Mechanical Behaviour Characterisation section

2. Central Workshop
Central workshop is the central facility of Institute, consisting of various
workshops such as Welding shop, Carpentry shop, Fitting shop, Sheet metal shop, 
Foundry and Heat treatment shop and Machine shop. Undergraduate Students get 
hands on experience in above sections by doing the job work and carrying out projects 
as part of their coursework and also students utilize the facilities for fabrication purpose 
of their academic projects. It also supports the R&D projects of the institute handled by 
various Faculty Members and Ph.D. and M.Tech. Thesis work of research scholars by 
providing them assistance in fabrication of their research set-ups. 
 
The following machines and equipment are available in the Central Workshop:
1. Welding fume extraction down draft table 
2. Multi process welding equipment 
3. Portable single phase MIG/MAG 
4. AC/DC welding equipment 
5. MIG/MAG welding equipment 
6. Treadle operated shearing Machine 
7. Hand operated Folding Machine 
8. Kaizen Muffle Furnace 
9. Hand operated Jeeny or Burying Machine 
10. Motorized Circle cutting Machine 
11. Hand operated Circle cutting Machine 
12. Hydraulic shearing Machine 
13. Portable Heating Plant 
14. Portable hardening plant 
15. Forging Heating Plant 
16. Aluminium Melting Plant

17. Fitting Table 
18. Mould Making Facility 
19. Portable Tool Grinder
3. Dynamics and Vibration Laboratory
Dynamics and Vibration Laboratory is well equipped with various mechanisms
such as Motorized Gyroscope Apparatus, Static and Dynamic Balancing Apparatus, 
Universal Governor Apparatus, Coriolis Component of Acceleration Apparatus, 
Epicyclic Gear Train Apparatus, Cam Analysis Machine Apparatus, Universal Vibration 
Apparatus, Stroboscope and Tachometer 10 in helping the students to understand the 
behavior of the various mechanisms and forces acting on them.
In addition, the laboratory is also equipped with various vibration measuring
instruments for computing the vibration characteristics of a machine or structures and 
equipment for vibrating the machine or structures in order to finds its resonance 
characteristics in various environmental conditions. Following equipment are available 
for measuring and/or testing vibration characteristics of elements to structures.
4. Electro Mechanical (EM) Energy Conversion Laboratory
In order to familiarize students to Electrical Machines properties &
characteristics, IIT Jodhpur has established “Electro Mechanical Energy Conversion 
Laboratory” and has continually been developing the potential of its lab facility. In this 
lab, state-of-the-art “Electrical Engineering” facilitates the students to empower their 
potential by familiarizing themselves with the fundamental of electro-mechanical energy 
conversion process, including several practical & industrial applications of machines in 
true applicable environment. This lab occupies conventional as well as modern

equipment to fulfil the basic and modern technological requirements with continual 
developing efforts.
5. Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer Laboratory
At Fluid Mechanics Laboratory students learn about the following:
1. Analyses and evaluation of experimental data 
2. Comparison between theoretical models and experimental data 
3. How to design a fluid mechanical and heat transfer system e.g. a piping system
considering various technical aspects, heat exchanger, thermal energy storage, 
receiver, wind catcher, volumetric air receiver.
In addition to the above, this laboratory aims at generating innovative ideas in
students by promoting the design of experiments and small scale projects. At present in 
the fluid mechanics laboratory are conducted experiments on losses in pipes 
(smooth/rough) and fittings (e.g. valves, bends), comparison between different flow 
meters, particle image velocimetry technique, Hot-wire anemometer, labscale sub-sonic 
wind tunnel for- pressure distribution around a cylinder/air-foil, lift and drag balance, 
boundary layer development, weather monitoring. Furthermore the lab provides 
training on standard software, such as, CFAST for fire simulation.
Currently the Heat Transfer Laboratory is equipped with the demonstration of
various thermometry techniques, heat exchange system, ventilation system, Natural and 
forced convection system, heat conduction unit for different materials, lab and 
industrial-scale solar water heater system, and thermal radiation unit. All these 
equipment are installed with respective software.
For testing, calibration and research purpose in these laboratories, various
equipment such as Laser Doppler Velocimeter with Particle Analyzer, pressure and

temperature calibration, blower with variable flow, pressure transducers, differential 
pressure transducers, turbine test rig, turbo-machine test rig, IC engine test rig etc., have 
been procured.
Moreover, multi-purpose test set up is being indigenously designed and the
components / sub-systems involved are being fabricated locally. This system aims at 
investigation and evaluation of solar thermal sub-systems such as volumetric air 
receiver, thermal energy storage, air-water heat exchange systems and their 
simultaneous operation. Devices such as earth air heat exchange system, wind catcher, 
and air-cooled heat exchange systems are being fabricated and tested for certain 
applications. 
 
6. High Temperature Solar Thermal Laboratory
Six laboratories are being set-up under the MNRE funded project entitled as
“Establishment of Center of Excellence in Solar Thermal Research and Education at IIT 
Jodhpur”. High Temperature Solar Thermal Laboratory is one of these specialized 
laboratories. The aim of this laboratory is:
1. Fundamental aspects of fluid flow and heat transfer related problems, like, dust
deposition
2. Design and analysis of sub-systems for concentrated solar thermal systems
Some of the sub-systems being designed and 
analyzed in this laboratory are:
(a) Open Volumetric Air Receiver for process
heat applications
(b) Compact heat exchanger 
(c) Solar Convective Furnace
This laboratory includes test facility, such as, 
Solar Air Tower Simulator (SATS) facility, 
advanced research grade equipment like Laser 
Doppler Velocimetry. SATS facility includes, 
open volumetric air receiver, thermal energy storage, air-water heat exchanger and is 
being extended with solar convective furnace. 
 
7. Material Testing and Solid Mechanics Laboratory
The material testing lab of the institute provides facilities to test samples of
different types of materials to find out their mechanical properties like modulus of 
elasticity, tensile and compressive strength, stress strain curve, bending properties, 
hardness etc. The lab is equipped with following test equipment:
1. Universal testing Machine 5-50 kN 
2. Rockwell Tester 
3. Brinell Tester 
4. Vickers Tester 
5. Poldi Hardness Tester 
6. Portable hardness tester

8. Renewable Energy Laboratory
To resolve most daunting challenge of
this world—energy needs—and also our 
nation’s 
heavy 
reliance 
on 
fossil 
fuels,
Renewable Energy Laboratory (REL) promotes 
rigorous and objective empirical research at IIT 
Jodhpur on issues related to energy and 
environment. REL focuses on designing, 
testing, and disseminating renewable and 
efficient energy system. The mission of REL is 
to help these technologies to realize their full 
potential to contribute to environmentally 
sustainable development in industrial and developing countries. In the renewable 
energy field, expert faculty and students at this Laboratory are currently striving to 
create an innovative system to efficiently harness energy from sunlight and wind power. 
REL has computer interfaced systems and approximately 30 students can work at a time. 
Students are the greatest resource of REL and IIT Jodhpur has made substantial 
commitment to the area of renewable energy and been providing all required resources 
to execute a viable plan and innovative research at REL. One aspect of the evolution of 
REL is the development of collaborative partnership with other academic and industrial 
groups. In the near future, it will be a hub for training and public-private sector 
collaboration. Recently, the lab has started a consultancy project, with Panasonic R & D 
India Pvt. Ltd., on the prototyping of microbial fuel cells. In addition, the lab has started 
work on data collection, interpretation, and analysis of PV power plants less than 5 MW 
in Rajasthan and Gujarat. The Renewable Energy Laboratory uses the following 
equipment: 
1. Wind power of 2KW Charge controller ~12V, Synchronous generator with permanent
magnets ~12V, Lamp board ~12V, Off grid inverter etc.
2. PEM Fuel cell Fuel cell with DC converter, Electronic load, Metal hydride storage cell,
3. Advanced Photovoltaics Solar module simulation model 23V/2A, Solar module with solar
altitude emulator, Solar charge controller 12/24V, 6A, Solar accumulator 12V, 7Ah, Off grid 
inverter 230V, 275VA etc.
4. Combined RF/DC Sputtering Unit for Coatings Applications. 
 
9. Solar Radiation Laboratory
The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) has
selected the IIT Jodhpur campus site as one of their solar radiation 
centers. Solar radiation measurement (Global and Direct), 
Humidity, Ambient temperature, Rain gauge and wind speed 
measurement are carried out at this center and the data is 
transmitted via a satellite link to the MNRE nodal center C-WET in 
Chennai. The instruments in this laboratory are powered by a 
couple of solar panels. The data collected from this center enables 
the solar resource assessment required for the setting up of solar 
thermal and solar photovoltaic power plants as outlined in the 
Jawaharlal Nehru National Solar Mission (JNNSM).

Department of Physics
The Department of Physics has the following laboratories for teaching and
research purposes.
1. Biomolecular Information Processing laboratory
This laboratory is involved in the understanding of information processing by
various kinds of biomolecules and related synthetic molecules. The process involves in 
using a single molecule first and then a group of molecule on a given interface. The 
interaction among the molecules in a given external stimuli will help us understanding 
the communication among them.
2. Magnetic Property Measurement System (MPMS/SQUID)
IIT Jodhpur has created an excellent facility in the field of material
characterization. Recently an additional dimension has been added to it by procuring 
magnetic property measurement system (MPMS). MPMS (SQUID) is getting installed in 
coming few months. This will provide a wide temperature 2 K – 1000 K range for both 
DC and AC magnetic measurements in conjunction with field dependent magnetic 
measurements. Such measurements will help to understand magnetic properties and 
associated spin dynamics in magnetic materials. 
 
 
3. Materials Analysis Laboratory

The research focuses on the development of novel materials for different
applications including materials for energy generation and storage. The current work 
includes the development of solution processable CIGS compound semiconductor 
materials for solar cell applications and transition metal oxide based materials for 
lithium ion batteries and supercapacitor applications. The laboratory is equipped with 
synthesis of bulk and thin films techniques such as sputtering, sol-gel process assembly 
etc., and numerous characterization techniques such as X-ray diffraction, Scanning 
electron microscope, Optical spectroscopic techniques, LCR meter, ferroic measurement 
system for bulk samples etc.
In addition, the group is also focusing on the development of multifunctional
materials for different applications such as solar selective coatings, ferroic materials for 
high frequency absorbing system, and magnetic particles for different applications. The 
laboratory is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities to carry out thermal analysis, 
electrochemical analysis, surface morphology studies, separation techniques for 
chemicals, electrical conductivity measurement devices, glove box etc. 
 
 
4. Physics Laboratory
The mission of the Physics laboratory at IIT Jodhpur is to provide students with
experiential knowledge in basic physics. This laboratory has state-of-the-art facilities 
including specific equipment and is currently offering different experiments in 
Mechanics, Waves, Electricity, Magnetism, and Optics. Now the lab has facilities for 
experimenting with Speed of Light, Zeeman Effect, and Michelson Interferometer.

Health Center
IIT Jodhpur provides round the clock health care facilities to Students, Faculty
and Staff Members of the Institute, at its residential campuses. The Health Center has 
five doctors and five supporting staff members. Both the Residential Campuses have 
Health Centers for providing routine health services. Due to geographical locations of 
the two Campuses and the type of the residents, Health Center at GPRA Campus 
provides services to the patients round the clock, while medical services are available at 
BSNL Campus for limited hours in the evening, typically from 5 pm to 10 pm. In 
addition to the availability of medical services at Residential Campuses, medical 
assistance is available at Academic Campus. This assistance is normally provided from 3 
pm to 4.30 pm, when laboratory sessions are in full swing and medical assistance may 
be required. The Institute has its ambulance services available round-the-clock.
Besides the Health Centers, the Institute has empanelled five hospitals in the city
of Jodhpur. Two of these hospitals have specializations in ophthalmology and one in 
orthopedic, and the remaining two hospitals are the best known general purpose 
hospitals in the city. For specialized medical attention doctors at our Health Centers 
refer patients to one of these hospitals. In addition to these five hospitals, the city has a 
Medical College and three hospitals run by Government of Rajasthan. Also, the city All 
India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), which is nearly 12 km GPRA Campus and 
nearly 5 km from BSNL Campus. Also, the Institute has constituted a Medical Board 
consisting of Senior Doctors from the Medical College and the AIIMS; advice is taken for 
enhancement of medical services of the Health Centers and in critical medical cases. IIT 
Jodhpur has empanelled two hospitals in Jaipur. These two hospitals are accredited by 
National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare, and patients can be referred to 
these hospitals as per the need of the treatment.
The Health Center coordinates and supervises the treatment of students,
employees, and their dependents during hospitalization in other hospitals that are 
empaneled by the Institute, to provide in-patient care. Also, an ambulance is available in 
the GPRA Residential Campus for attending to any medical emergencies.
On request, the Health Center extends its health care services to Institute visitors
during their stay in the residential campus. Under emergency circumstances medical 
services are also extended to the non-IIT Jodhpur community residents in the residential 
campus. Details like patient records, medicine procurement/disbursement, assets, 
equipment of Health Center are all computerized.

Sports Facilities
Sports and games facilities to students are provided at four places, namely, the
hostel premises, academic campus, playground of Vidhyashram International School, 
and in the new campus area of Jai Narayan Vyas University. Conveyance is taken care of 
by the Office of Logistics in the Institute. Students also enjoy a gymnasium facility at the 
residential campus.
SC/ST Cell

Women Cell
The Women Cell, IIT Jodhpur, functions in accordance with the provisions
contained in Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013. The following are some activities organized by the Women Cell 
during FY 2015-16.
The Women Cell of the Institute organized a lecture on “Sexual harassment at
work place and precedent law” by Advocate Dr. Nupur Bhati on 18 September 2015. 
Advocate Bhati, a serving lawyer in Rajasthan High Court, elucidated the provisions 
under the Sexual Harassment at Workplace Act, 2013 and touched upon some cases as 
examples. The lecture was attended by the Faculty Members, Staff Members, Students, 
and Members of Women Cell.
2016 International Women’s Day was celebrated at the Indian Institute of
Technology Jodhpur on 8 March 2016. The program was organized by Women Cell, IIT 
Jodhpur. Honourable Justice Jaishree Thakur, Sitting Judge of Rajasthan High Court, 
Jodhpur, who graced the occasion as the Chief Guest delivered the key note address.
The Women Cell, IIT Jodhpur, on the occasion of the International Women’s Day,
organized Logo Design and Slogan Writing Competitions for their Students and 
Employees, ahead of time. During this program, Prizes and Certificates of Appreciation 
were given away to the winners and runners up. A memento was presented to the Chief 
Guest.
On this day the Women Cell, IIT Jodhpur adopted an official logo and a slogan,
which was released by the Chief Guest. They were the prize winning contributions from 
the Logo Design and Slogan Writing Competitions organized by the Women Cell, IIT 
Jodhpur. Thereafter, a short video on “Contribution of Women” was screened. The 
event concluded with a visit to the exhibition of the entries received in Logo Design and 
Slogan Writing competition organized by the Women Cell, IIT Jodhpur.
Honourable Justice Jaishree Thakur, Chief Guest, addressing
the gathering
Releasing Logo and Slogan for the Women Cell

Members of the Women Cell, IIT Jodhpur
Exhibition of the Logo Design & Slogan Writing Competition
The Women Cell of the Institute organized a workshop on “Gender Intelligence”
during 5-7 May 2016, for all employees of IIT Jodhpur. The workshop was conducted by 
Ms. Rashmi Datt and Ms. Mona Dutta from Dialog Services, Gurgaon. The first part of 
the workshop focused on assertive training aspect for women, which was attended by 
all women employees of the Institute. The second part of the workshop was for both 
men and women employees. The workshop was attended by the Faculty Members, Staff 
Members, and Members of Women Cell.
Workshop on “Gender Intelligence” Part 1 - Assertive
training session for women
Workshop on “Gender Intelligence” Part 2 – Session on
Prevention of Sexual Harassment (PoSH)
Participants of the Workshop on “Gender Intelligence” with Resource Persons

STUDENT ACTIVITIES
Students Gymkhana
The “Student Gymkhana”, IIT Jodhpur, is divided into five "societies", and in turn
each society is divided into several clubs. These societies fulfil the varied interests of the 
students and contribute to their holistic development. These six societies are:
The Academic, Research and Management (ARM) Society is a platform for all
activities and initiatives related to Academics and Research. It encourages academic and 
research activities in Institute among students. Also, the society works towards effective 
involvement of students in the decision making. The Mission of the ARM Society is:
(a) To strengthen Student-Faculty interaction and take them beyond only formal association; 
(b) To serve as a platform for students to undertake research projects under Faculty Members,
and to create an environment of cognizance in the student community pertaining to the 
real-life problems; and
(c) To organize various technical meets and seminars to expose students to the recent
discoveries and technological advancements and the innumerable opportunities that they 
can pursue.
The functions and responsibilities of the ARM Society are:

(a) To help individual students address their specific academic concerns; 
(b) To coordinate with the centralized academic facilities such as Computer Centre, Library
and Reading Room;
(c) To support the Senate of the Institute on matters such as revision of academic curriculum;
and
(d) To share concerns of the students on academic and research matters. 
 
 
 
The society deals with all matters regarding public relations and management of the
various activities of all the societies of Students' Gymkhana which take place in the Institute. It 
helps in enhancing one’s personality, management skills, public speaking, writing and 
coordination with student colleagues, towards overall development of students. The 
following clubs operate under the society: 
 
(a) Promotions Club
The Club writes content as well as reports for various Intra and Inter collegiate fests,
special events and seminars, which are held throughout the year. Also, it coordinates for 
the content to be published in local media.
(b) Public Speaking and Personality Development Club
Public speaking is one very important aspect which shows the personality of an
individual. The club organizes sessions to hone public speaking skills, increase confidence 
levels and makes students proficient in Public Speaking.
(c) Entrepreneurship Club
The club collaborates with the E-cells of other institutes and conducts various seminars
and useful activities related to entrepreneurship.
(d) Resource Management Club
The main work of this club is to manage resources during various inter and intra-level
activities efficiently.
(e) Finance and Case-Studies Club
Many individuals are faced with investing and financing decisions at some point in
their life. Having a firm grasp over financial matters aids them in making those decisions. 
The club helps students undertake Case Studies which help to see how the complexities of 
real life situations influence decision making.
(f) Leadership Enhancement and All-round Development (LEAD) Club
This initiative aims at enhancing the overall personality and soft skills of the students,
and prepares them for the professional world. Workshops organized by professionals 
skilled in personality grooming, resume writing, personal interview, etc. Group 
discussions, mock interviews and public-speaking sessions are conducted to train students 
for interviews and help in their personality development. Students get a real-world 
exposure, while getting expert guidance not only from professionals, but also from senior 
students.

Creativity is more than just being different. Anybody can plan being weird; that’s easy.
What’s hard is to be simple. Making the simple, awesomely simple, that’s creativity. The 
society makes people develop their imagination, their talent; teaching them the advancement 
in technology to enhance their knowledge in their field of interest. The society has its 
independent activities, workshops and competitions under the following areas of interest:
(a) Animatrons (The Animation Club)
The Club teaches students to bring the animator out of them, via workshops by
professionals and its own team. With the blend of Stop Motion Animation and Software 
Animation, the Club moves towards paper animation, 2D and 3D graphics animation, 
pixilation, flash light animation.
(b) Ateliers (The Fine Arts Club)
To play with colours is the passion of this Club. Training is imparted to students via
workshops and competitions in fine or decorative arts. We organize a lot of activities of 
interest like painting, sketching, glass etching, face and T-shirt Painting, wax carving, and 
graffiti workshops. This Club gives shape to various festivals of IIT Jodhpur.
(c) Designerds (The Designing Club)
The Club designs logos, posters, newsletters, T-shirts, etc. The Club has given some of
the best designers, who can train with software, like Adobe Photoshop, Indesign and 
Illustrator. The Club members excel in graphic designing which promotes thoughts and 
imagination. Also, the club has won competitions in Mood Indigo – IIT Bombay.
(d) Frame-X (The Film Making and Video Editing Club)
The Club makes videos, record and edits them. The Club, constantly and actively,
takes part in various Inter-College Fests presenting short films or documentaries which 
have gained popularity. The Club members use the most sophisticated HandyCams, 
GoPro cameras dealing with software, like Windows Movie Maker, Sony Vegas and 
Adobe After Effects.
(e) Porta Talkies (The Movie Screening Club)
The Club is responsible for screening of movies, matches and on demand talks.
(f) Shutterbugs (The Photography and Photo-Editing Club)
The Club consistently holds its workshops on Photoshop and provides hands on
experience on technically sound semipro DSLR Cameras. The Club holds responsibility of 
all media coverage of student activities IIT Jodhpur.
With the thought “Imagination is more important than knowledge”, the Science and
Technology Society (NUTS) of IIT Jodhpur provides students an opportunity to think beyond 
the conventional boundaries of science, to realize their dreams and develop the technology for 
the next generation. The following clubs operate under this society:
(a) Aeromodelling Club
The Aeromodelling Club is a group for aviation and Aeromodelling enthusiasts in the
Institute. The Club provides students an opportunity to make rockets, gliders, planes, 
hovercrafts and fly them up in the air. The activities of the Club include lectures and 
workshops on various Aeromodelling and aviation topics and working on small projects.

(b) Automobile Club
The Club promotes students to design and make their own car. The Club has
developed an eco-friendly manual cum electric driven vehicle. The Club is associated with 
an international body, Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE), and encourages and 
prepares students to participate in national level competitions such as Effi Cycle and Baja.
(c) Astronomy Club
The Club organizes regular lectures and discussions to help students develop a better
understanding of those astronomy phenomenons in nature. The Club made a record at the 
Inter IIT-Tech Meet 2014 by detecting 72 objects in the overnight observatory competition 
“The Messier Marathon”.
(d) Electronics Club
The Club makes students familiar with electronic circuits, and teaches them skills like
working on mini computers (such as beagle bone, Raspberry pie). Also, the club makes 
students familiar with analog as well as digital electronics through various lectures and 
competitions organized throughout the year.
(e) Robotics Club
The Club conducts regular lectures and workshops to provide students a hand on
experience on technologies, such as DTMF, image processing, and motion sensing. Today 
the Club is an active platform for students to display and develop their practical machine-
building skills and knowledge.
(f) Programming and Web Designing Club
With regular lectures, competitions and winter coding camp, the Club provides
students a chance to learn from people around them and improve their coding skills. 
Students get a chance to sit with a group of like-minded people and prepare for various 
national and international level coding competitions.
(g) Science Club
The Club provides students an opportunity to solve the Rubik’s Cube, make their own
angry bird station, and play with air gun, Rube Goldberg etc. The activities of this club 
tests students’ imagination skills and help to improve it.
Sports are known for producing the most remarkable athletes, colourful characters,
influential leaders and memorable heroes. IIT Jodhpur Sports and Games Society reflects the 
same spirit of introducing sporting activities to the campus community. This society aims to 
promote sports and exercise in the true spirit of sportsmanship and motivate students to work 
with team spirit. The Society strives and endeavours to inculcate and introduce this essential 
activity as a part of the routine in every student's life. All efforts are made to bring out and 
encourage the sports person in each one under the guidance of professional coaches and with 
best sporting facility.
Individuals can be strong on their own, but they are much stronger in a team. Victory
achieved alone can be sweet, but there is nothing sweeter than sharing that moment with 
fellow members. One of the rare times in life one learns to play with his friends and some of 
his enemies, and yet learns to respect each one of them for the innate respect of the sport. That 
is the essence of introducing sports in a student's life to instill the qualities of vigour, sacrifice

and overall sportsman spirit. The society organizes the Institute team that participates in Inter 
IIT Sports Meet held annually at any one of the IITs. Inter-IIT Championship title is much 
coveted in the whole IIT Jodhpur family. It is the place where every sports student is given the 
opportunity to showcase his/her talent in respective sports and to wear the jersey and run 
around the grounds representing the glorified history of respective IITs along with the 
responsibility to continue the legacy. Every Inter-IIT player has this unique urge to win the 
game for the pride and the honour of the Institute, for the blood, and the tears and the sweat 
to make a team and to earn the spot. The Institute has representation in the sports, like 
Aquatics, Athletics, Badminton, Basketball, Cricket, Football, Lawn Tennis, Squash, Table 
Tennis, Volleyball, and Weightlifting at Inter IIT Sports Meet.
The Institute has many sporting events lined up throughout the year, which act as a
platform to showcase your talent and to keep the adrenaline levels racing. Every year the 
council organizes an Intra-Institute Sports Festival called “KRIDANSH”. This sports fest is 
designed to attract mass participation. It sees the best sporting talents in the Institute pitted 
against each other to fight for the glory of their respective branches. It has games like tug of 
wars, Kho-Kho and Kabaddi, along with regulars.
In addition to sports, the society arranges several adventure tours and coordinates the
WAVES is the fountainhead of all cultural activities in the institute. It provides
students opportunities to pursue their passion for performing arts and in honing their 
aesthetic sensibilities. Under WAVES, there are five Clubs, which function throughout the 
year.
(a) Dance Club
The Dance Club organises activities ranging from Intra Institute to Inter-Collegiate
events with a special emphasis on workshops on different dance forms. The team, with 
name 'dEFEATtHEbEAT', has participated in different college festivals across country, 
including Chaos (IIMA) and Mood Indigo (IITB) and has also been selected in Indian Hip 
Hop Dance Championship auditions.
(b) Music Club
The Music Club is all about passion and the platform you need to showcase them.
Spanning from the students' band performances for freshers, to the live stages of college 
festivals, Music Club brings opportunities for all the interested students. The major 
highlights include Unplugged Nights and the Musical Extravaganza. Apart from these, 
music learning sessions are conducted for the beginners.
(c) Quiz Club
The main aim of the Club is to generate interest in quizzing as a fun activity that
everyone can indulge in and at the same time gain some handful amount of knowledge. 
The Club organizes interesting Quiz contests/sessions throughout the year to expose 
students to the artistic world of Quizzing and provide a platform to contest at several 
national and intra-collegiate quizzes.

(d) Drama Club
The Club, also known as “DRAMEBAAZ”, performs a variety of plays which are both
didactic and simultaneously entertaining. Nukkad performance is the highlight of the 
Republic and Independence Day celebrations in the Institute, and is quite applauded by 
the audience, leaving them awestruck every time. Also, it performs stage plays.
(e) Literature Club
The Club works on the vision to explore a whole new world of books, belles-letters
and the magic of words. The Club is not all about writing, but hosts fun events like Jam, 
Shout, Hurdles, and Debates. Language is no bar; we have both Hindi and English 
Literature Clubs.
(f) SPIC MACAY Club
The Society for the Promotion of Indian Classical Music And Culture Among Youth
(SPIC MACAY) is a society that helps protect and popularize our rich Indian heritage. 
SPIC MACAY IIT Jodhpur Chapter was formalized in the year 2012.

Student Fests & Events
The Student Gymkhana of the Institute organizes events with dual purpose. On the
one side, these events help engage students in creative work during their leisure hours and 
thereby build skills and interests in them. And, on the other side, these events help students 
to self-organise themselves and provide platforms for others to excel.
The events organized by the Student Gymkhana can be seen in two streams, namely: 
1. Inter-Institute Festivals and Tournaments; and 
2. Intra-Institute Festivals and Championships. 
 
The students were successful in nurturing a culture filled with energy and initiative.
They have organized events which served as a medium of communication and bonding 
amongst themselves. Major festivals like Ganesh Chaturthi, Diwali, Sankranti, Eid and Holi 
were celebrated with great enthusiasm. Sports activities were also regularly conducted to 
encourage sportsmanship, which were supported by the Faculty Members. The following 
are some of the major student activities that had taken place in the campus in the year 2014-
15.
INTER-INSTITUTE FESTIVALS
VARCHAS 
 
 
 
Varchas is the inter-collegiate sports festival of IIT Jodhpur. The festival celebrates
the spirit of sportsmanship and serves as a platform to showcase countless hours of 
perspiration put in by college teams to achieve excellence in sports. Varchas was first 
conducted in the year 2011, with a vision of promoting sports among the colleges of India, 
and providing the athletes in India, a platform to showcase their talent. Competitions are 
held in the fields of football, cricket, table tennis, lawn tennis, badminton, squash, volleyball, 
basketball and athletics in national level stadiums of Jodhpur. Varchas promotes healthy 
competition and is a great opportunity for the teams to prove their mettle in their respective 
sports. 
 
 
Moreover, belonging to the educated core of the country, the students of IIT Jodhpur
try to fulfil their social obligation through “Soch -The Social Aspect of Varchas”. Soch is a 
platform where the students take up pertinent social issues and try to find possible solutions 
through discussions and debates; spread awareness and conduct drives to involve people 
spanning across varied backgrounds. An attempt is made to create a profound social impact 
for the amelioration of the society.
In 2015, this sports festival was organized from 29 October to 1 November. The Chief
Guest at Varchas 2015 was Padma Shri Limba Ram, an Indian archer from Rajasthan. 
Varchas 2015 witnessed a footfall of over 1000 participants and various competitions were 
conducted in events like athletics, volleyball, cricket, football, table tennis, basketball, 
aquatics, chess and badminton.

Opening Ceremony of Varchas 2015 
Participants of Varchas 2015
Participants of Varchas 2015 
“Awaz”: A SOCH event
In 2015, the Soch team put their best foot forward to organize the following events as
part of Soch. 
(a) Awaaz: A panel discussion was conducted with a great contribution from some
renowned speakers and students from all over the city of Jodhpur on the theme 
“Improtance of Sports in Education”.
(b) Intra and Inter School Competitions: To understand the outlook of younger generation
who are tomorrow’s responsible citizens, a visit was undertaken to some schools in 
Jodhpur. Competitions like drawing, essay writing, were conducted to get a reflection of 
their thoughts and ideas regarding cleanliness.
The fest concluded with Director’s Dinner hosted in the Temporary Academic
Campus of IIT Jodhpur on 1 November 2016. The marathon, which is a part of Varchas 2015, 
was organized on 17 April 2016 at 6 am in coordination with the Jodhpur Development 
Authority (JDA). The theme of this year’s marathon was “Smart and Swacch Jodhpur”. An 
overwhelming response was received from the people and athletes from across the state of 
Rajasthan.
Participants in Mini Marathon on 17 April 2016

IGNUS 
 
 
 
IGNUS, the techno-cultural fest of IIT Jodhpur was celebrated from 25-28 February
2016. The fest was opened by famous Sitar player Shujaat Khan on 25 February 2016 with 
collaboration of Spic Macay. Robosoccer, Nrityansh, Clash of Bands, Robowar, Antarang, 
IGNUS Open 2016 were the flagship events that were organised during this fest. Workshops 
on Android App Development, Bridge Designing, Augmented Reality, Vehicle 
Overhauling, Ethical Hacking, Embedded System, Entrepreneurship, Data Science & 
machine Learning, Serial & Wireless Communication, Placement Etiquettes, and 
Quadcopter were organized during this event. Famous singer Krishnakumar Kunnath, 
popularly known as KK performed during the pronite.
An Alumni Meet was also organized on 27 February 2016. Professor Prawal Sinha,
Professor In-Charge (Faculty), IIT Jodhpur, Anand Krishnan Plappally, Faculty In-Charge, 
Alumni Relation Committee, IIT Jodhpur, and Damayanti Bhattacharya, CEO, IIT Bombay 
Alumni Association addressed the Alumni of IIT Jodhpur.
Technical Events during IGNUS 2016
Cultural Events during IGNUS 2016

INTRA-INSTITUTE FESTIVALS
IIT Jodhpur Student Gymkhana hosts Intra-Institute Festivals for its own student
community. They are: 
 
(a) Spandan
Spandan is the Intra-Institute cultural fest of IIT Jodhpur, usually the first fest of the
session. It draws an enthusiastic crowd, eager to portray their talents in the cultural 
arena. Versatility in the various categories is extensive, with competitions organized in 
fields, like drama, dance, singing, literature, photography events, informals and fashion 
show. Three days of Spandan awakens the whole campus leaving the students to 
prepare all night. Spandan is one of the first public occasions to take place in the year, 
and hence it brings together students from all years to interact with each other. 
Participation with zeal and showcasing the hidden creativity tamed inside an 
individual, are the motives of the fest.
(b) Nimble
Nimble, the Intra-College technical fest provides a platform to the techno buds of the
Institute to show their hidden talent. Nimble comprises of four action packed days, filled 
with a great variety of tech and science events ranging from intense mind boggling 
events (such as robotics, electronics and programming) to fun filled events (like angry 
bird, quizzes, and crypto)). Apart from the events, talks are organized by eminent 
personalities in the field of Science and Technology, to motivate students to work 
harder, as there is no end to discoveries and inventions.
(c) Kalakriti
Kalakriti is a mixed bag of fun-filled competitions, interesting workshops and back-
to-back movie screenings. “Because everything you can imagine is real!” : this line 
wakes up the dormant talent amongst students and the output is sudden burst of colors. 
With a multitude of events ranging from Fine Arts and Clay Modelling, to Photography 
and Video Editing, ‘Kalakriti’ witnesses huge participation from designers and non-
designers alike. Events like ‘Scribble Day’ brings together the entire final year batch of 
students, whom all the other students bid adieu and leave a farewell message or graffiti 
on a common piece of cloth given to them. A great way to bring smile on everyone’s 
face, ‘Kalakriti’ succeeds in spreading joy, unity and togetherness in the small tight-knit 
community of ours.
(d) Kridansh
Kridansh is organized to give sports enthusiasts a chance to pursue their passion in
sports. Matches are organized both outdoor and indoor, such as Gully Cricket, Street 
Football and Single Court Basketball, Chess, Carroms, Badminton, Table Tennis, and 
Swimming. Full-fledged dedication from participants and organizers makes Kridansh 
one of the liveliest events of the year.

OTHER EVENTS
“Framed 2016” Art Exhibition
“Framed” is the annual Art Exhibition of IIT Jodhpur conducted by the Media, Arts
and Design Society, Students Gymkhana, IIT Jodhpur. The main motive of ‘Framed’ is to 
promote and showcase the artwork done by the students of IIT Jodhpur throughout the 
year. This year it was organised on 13 March 2016, in the Institute. It includes the 
Photography, Photo Editing, Posters designed by Students, and Sketches & Paintings made 
by the Students. For the first time, this event was opened for people outside of the Institute. 
There were entries from all over the country. The exhibition recorded a considerable footfall 
from students of other colleges and local public of Jodhpur. Mr. Ravi Dhingra, Canon Photo 
Mentor, who has been a judge in many national level competitions, was Chief Guest for the 
event.
Spectators musing the art work
Felicitating Mr. Ravi Dhingra, Canon Photo Mentor

Student Accolades
Scholarships to Students
The following III Year B.Tech. students have received academic scholarships for
Summer 2016.
1. Name of
Scholarship
Deutscher Akademischer Austauschdienst 
(German Academic Exchange Service) popularly known as “DAAD”
Funding Agency 
DAAD WISE (Working Internships in Science and Engineering)
Period of 
Scholarship
3 Months (from May to July, 2016)
Names of Students
1. Abhishek Jaju (Electrical Engineering), 
2. Arnav Jindal (Computer Science & Engineering), 
3. Ashutosh Gupta (Electrical Engineering), 
4. Nithin Venkatesh (Computer Science), 
5. Hardik Jain (Mechanical Engineering), 
6. Prakhar Srivastava (Electrical Engineering), and 
7. Sangram Gaikwad (System Science).
2. Name of
Scholarship
S. N. Bose Scholars Program
Funding Agency 
DST and the Indo-US Science and Technology Forum (IUSSTF)
Period of 
Scholarship
3 Months (from May to July, 2016)
Name of the 
Student
V. Ashwin (Electrical Engineering)
GRIDTECH 2015 Award to IIT Jodhpur Students
Aniruddh Ramrakhyani, Suryateja Voruganti, and Alvin Roy Aliath, final year
B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering) students were awarded Second Prize at the Student 
Innovation Pavilion of 5th International Exhibition and Conference GRIDTECH 2015, for 
their project “Short-time Transformer-less Dynamic Voltage Restorer”. They carried out the 
project under the guidance of Dhaval C. Patel, Assistant Professor, Department of Electrical 
Engineering. The prize was given away by Shri Girish Pradhan, Chairman, CERC. 
Supported by the Ministry of Power (Government of India), the event was organised by 
PGCIL from 8-10 April 2015 at Pragati Maidan, New Delhi.

Counselling Service
The prime objective of the team is to organize the Orientation Program. This is
especially tailored to bring the freshers up to speed with life in Institute, while maintaining 
a homely feel, and gently enabling the transition into this Institute. The Counseling Service 
has been an integral part of the Institute since its inception. Every year, it strives hard to 
ensure that every student gets to know IITJ at its most intricate levels, and absorb all that the 
Institute has to offer. Further, the Counseling Service Team takes care of special language 
needs that some students might face during this time. It spares no effort in this, and work 
towards making this transition memorable throughout their lives. 
 
 
 The Counseling Service Team consists of a Faculty Advisor with 30 students (called
Student Guides) bestowed to work for welfare of students. A Student Guide is the backbone 
of the team, with every guide taking 8-10 freshers under his/her vision and guidance. The 
Student Guide works towards helping the student adjusts well in the hostel and in his 
academic life. The Student Guide keeps in continuous touch with the student and his/her 
family. The team ensures that not only the student, but his/her parents too get the 
opportunity to interact with the Student Guide, to maintain a healthy relationship. As part 
of this Counseling, it is the duty of the team to promote development of the student in all 
three aspects, namely:
1. Academics 
2. Extra-Curricular 
3. Personal
For this purpose, voluntary, confidential and free counselling service is offered for a
wide range of issues that include:
1. Academic support: Providing information about the different academic programs of the
Institute, imparting efficient time management skills and study skills;
2. Personal: Overcoming homesickness, adjusting to the new environment and related
3. Counselling advocacy: Psycho-education and referral services to students; 
4. Interaction with the Institute and the existing body of students; and 
5. Encouraging students to discover their extra-curricular interests/hobbies.
Counselling service also focuses on the concerns and difficulties of the students by
providing personal guidance to deal with problems arising during their college life at the 
Institute. The following activities are undertaken by the Counseling Services team:
1. Maintaining the Institute as a ragging free campus; 
2. Organizing “Orientation Program” every year, for the sophomore batch so as to
make them acquainted with the culture of IIT Jodhpur;
3. Organizing workshops related to:
(a) Career counselling, 
(b) Stress management, 
(c) Time management, 
(d) Health care and hygiene, 
(e) Vocational training, 
(f) Relationship problems, 
(g) Coping with homesickness and 
(h) Addiction and others;

4. Conducting motivational talks by eminent speakers; 
5. Addressing the academic problems of the students by conducting:
(a) English language sessions for students from vernacular background, and 
(b) Basic Information Technology (IT) skill building sessions etc.;
6. Organizing interaction building events amongst students of different batches, and
with faculty members etc.; and
7. Individually attending to problems of students with poor academic performance.
Launched in 2014, the IIT Jodhpur Counseling Service is continuing the Campus
Mentoring System. In this system, a group of students are associated with one Faculty 
Member and one Staff Member, who in turn act as the Mentors of the students.
Yellow Day Celebrations
“Yellow is the best colour to create enthusiasm for life and can awaken greater
confidence and optimism. As we get engrossed in our mundane routines, we forget to take a 
break and enjoy the little things in our life. What is needed is a moment where we stop and 
appreciate all the awesome things around us”. With this motive, IIT Jodhpur Counselling 
Service Team initiated a tradition this year to dedicate one day i.e., 12 February, to 
appreciate the good things in our life. On this day, all members of IIT Jodhpur Community 
were requested to wear clothes in the shades of yellow and join for a get together in the 
lawns of the Academic Campus. The team had put up yellow chart papers for the members 
to record their thoughts on “What makes you smile”. The event was attended by the 
Students, Faculty and Staff Members of the Institute.
Faculty Members greeting each other in yellow attires 
Recording thoughts on “What makes you smile?”

S. No. Company Number of Students Selected per Total Number
Branch of Students
1. A ngara E-Commerce Pvt. Ltd. 2 2
2. C 42 Engineering India Pvt. Ltd. 3 3
3. C oal India Limited 3 4 7
4. C ognizant 5 1 3 9
5. C ognizant Technology Solutions 1 1
7. D . E. Shaw India Software Pvt. Ltd 1 1 2
8. D rishti Soft Solutions Pvt. Ltd. 3 3
9. F utures First Info Services Pvt. Ltd. 1 1
10. G rofers India Pvt. Ltd. 2 2
Student Placement Cell
The Office of Student Placements (OSP) is run and managed by the students in sync
with the official authorities, thereby taking care of the placement and internship procedures. 
The students coordinate the job of contacting various companies, their interaction with the 
students, arranging pre-placement talks, tests, and interviews.
In 2015-16, companies in core engineering, information and communication
technology, and banking sector, government and public sector organizations have visited 
IIT Jodhpur for placements.
Total 96 of our students i.e., 90 B.Tech. Students and 6 M.Tech. Students, have been
placed with different companies in the year 2015-16.
Their details of companies and placements are as below.
B.Tech. Undergraduate Students

11. H CL Technologies 1 2 3
13. I gniteWorld Pvt. Ltd. 1 1
14. I shi Systems 1 1 2
16. L arsen and Toubro 3 3
17. M ahindra & Mahindra Ltd. 6 6
18. M axheap Technologies Pvt .Ltd.
(CommonFloor.com) 2 2
19. M icrosoft 2 1 3
20. M organ Stanley 2 1 3
21. N ational Engineering Industries 2 2
22. N ucleus Software Exports Limited 1 1
23. P racto Technologies Pvt. Ltd. 1 1 2
24. S amsung India Software Center (SISC) 4 4
25. S teelWedge Technologies Pvt. Ltd. 2 2 1 5
26. T ata Consultancy Services 4 4
27. T ata Motors Ltd. 1 4 5
28. V oylla Fashions Pvt. Ltd. 2 1 1 1 5
Total Students Placed 29 28 22 11 90
S. No. Company Number of Students Total
Number of
Students
Placed
1. Cognizant 2 2 4
2. Tata Consultancy Services 2 2
M. Tech. Postgraduate Students

Alumni Relations
The Office of Alumni Relations of the Institute works for the alumni of the Institute,
no matter where the alumni live. The Office is a canvas of collective experiences and shared 
memories. We urge the Alumni to share with us your stories of both struggle and success. 
As brand ambassadors of the Institute and torch bearers of change, this special bond 
between the Alumni and the Institute, should be the catalyst for valuable exchange between 
the Institute and the big-wide world.
The Office of Alumni Relations is managed by the Alumni Relations Committee,
consisting of two Faculty Members and four Students.
All students completing any specific degree program at IIT Jodhpur become Life
Members with the Office of Alumni Relations and no fee is associated with the membership.
An Alumni Meet was organized on 27 February 2016. Professor Prawal Sinha,
Professor In-Charge (Faculty), IIT Jodhpur, Anand Krishnan Plappally, Faculty In-Charge, 
Alumni Relation Committee, IIT Jodhpur, and Damayanti Bhattacharya, CEO, IIT Bombay 
Alumni Association addressed the Alumni of IIT Jodhpur.

Program Year of Registration Number
Total 139
Total 40
Total 14
Total 557
Grand Total 750
Registered Students in IIT Jodhpur
IIT Jodhpur has, as on 31 March 2016, a total of 750 students registered in various
programs offered by the Institute. The table and chart below depict the program-wise break-
up of the registered students in the Institute.

S. No. Roll No. Name Center / Department
1. P G201081501 Belal Usmani Energy
2. P G201081502 Dharmendra Singh Rajpurohit Energy
3. P G201081504 Suresh Kumar Energy
4. P G201181001 Deepesh Patidar Energy
5. P G201181003 Pura Ram Energy
6. P G201181004 Vikas Pratap Singh Energy
7. P G201181005 Vikash Chandra Janu Energy
8. P G201181501 Lokesh Saini Energy
9. P G201181502 Surendra Singh Barala Energy
10. P G201182001 Abhay Samant ICT
11. P G201182005 Puneet Kumar Jain ICT
12. P G201182006 Ram Niwash Mahia ICT
13. P G201182007 Ravi Raj Choudhary ICT
14. P G201182009 Sapana Ranwa ICT
15. P G201182010 Saurabh Maheshwari ICT
16. P G201182501 Amit Bhati ICT
17. P G201182502 Kapil Sharma ICT
18. P G201183001 Rohan Sharma SS
19. P G201183501 Parmod Kumar SS
20. P G201183502 Preeti Yadav SS
21. P G201281001 Ajay Jain Energy
22. P G201281002 Dharmesh Kumar Energy
23. P G201281003 Poonam Sharma Energy
24. P G201281004 Shejale Kiran Prakash Energy
25. P G201282002 Deepak Bharti ICT
26. P G201282003 Giriraj Vyas ICT
27. P G201282007 Rakesh Kanji ICT
28. P G201282009 Suresh Dahiya ICT
29. P G201282010 Vaibhav Saini ICT
30. P G201282012 Vibha Sahlot ICT
31. P G201282501 Shilpa Pandey ICT
32. P G201283001 Anoopa Joshi SS
33. P G201283003 Manvendra Sharma SS
34. P G201283005 Parvinder Singh SS
35. P G201283006 Pradumn Kumar Pandey SS
36. P G201283007 Rakesh Kumar SS
37. P G201283008 Ranveer Singh SS
38. P G201283009 Vinay Pratap Singh SS
Following are lists of students registered in various programs offered by the 
Institute, detailed according to the Centers and Branches of the various programs.
Ph.D. Students

39. P G201381001 Aditya Raw Gautam Energy
40. P G201381002 Goutam Kumar Gupta Energy
41. P G201381003 Om Prakash Mahela Energy
42. P G201381005 Rohitash Kumar Energy
43. P G201382005 Vipin Joshi ICT
44. P G201383001 Anjali Singh SS
45. P G201382002 Anurag Sahu SS
46. P G201383002 Dipti Trivedi SS
47. P G201383005 Raj Kumar Satankar SS
48. P G201383006 Shraddha Choudhary SS
49. P G201383501 Deepak Kumar SS
50. P G201383502 Dileep Kumar SS
51. P G201383503 Manish Raghav SS
52. P G201383504 Satendra Pal Singh SS
53. P G201383506 Vishal Sharma SS
54. P G201384002 Ankisha Vijay BISS
55. P G201384003 Anuj Kumar Bharti BISS
56. P G201384004 Arun Kumar Upadhyay BISS
57. P G201384005 Ayeman Amanullah BISS
58. P G201384006 Bhubanesh Rathore BISS
59. P G201384007 Kriti Dubey BISS
60. P G201384008 Megha Singh BISS
61. P G201384009 Nidhi Sharma BISS
62. P G201384010 Rahul Badhwar BISS
63. P G201384011 Rakhi N. K. BISS
64. P G201384012 Ridhi Aggarwal BISS
65. P G201384013 Shalini Singh BISS
66. P G201384014 Vibhuti Joshi BISS
67. P 14EE001 Ajay Kumar Mahato EE
68. P 14EE002 Priyanka Bajaj EE
69. P 14ME001 Gurveer Singh ME
70. P 14ME003 Rakesh Joshi ME
72. P 14ME005 Sandeep Gupta ME
73. P 14CS001 Hiteshi Jain CSE
74. P 14CS002 Ravi Sharma CSE
75. P 14PH001 Rajesh Kumar PH
76. P 14PH002 Sanjoy Chatterjee PH
77. P 14MT001 Supriyo Dutta MT
78. P 14BL002 Sachin Vyas BL
79. P 14BS001 Alankar Agarwal BISS
81. P 14BS004 Manju Kumari BISS
82. P 14BS005 Shivanjali Saxena BISS
83. P 14BS006 Vandana BISS

84. P 14BS007 Ribhav Mishra BISS
85. P 14HS003 Saina Maidullah HSS
86. P 14SS001 Brajesh Kumar Shukla SS
87. P 14EN001 Priya Malpani Energy
88. P 14BL003 Amitap Khandelwal BL
90. P 14CHM002 Abhinav Srivastava CHM
91. P 14ME007 Amrita Kaurwar ME
92. P 14ME008 Phadatare Hanmant Pandurang ME
93. P 14PH003 Javid Ahmad Naikoo PH
94. P 14PH004 Vijendra Singh Bhati PH
95. P 15ME001 Devendra Singh ME
96. P 15ME002 Lochan Sharma ME
97. P 15ME003 Pravesh Kumar ME
98. P 15ME004 Sumit Mahajan ME
99. P 15CY001 Devika Laisharam CHM
100. P 15CY002 Hargeet Kaur CHM
101. P 15CY003 Jyoti Faujdar CHM
102. P 15CY004 Anchal Gahlaut CHM
103. P 15CY005 Bhawna Chaubey CHM
104. P 15CY006 Arpita Srivastava CHM
105. P 15CY007 Sumitra Godara CHM
107. P 15BL001 Ishan Agrawal BL
108. P 15PH001 Chandni Kumari PH
109. P 15PH002 Jyoti Saini PH
110. P 15PH003 Khushboo Dixit PH
111. P 15MA001 Divya Gupta MT
112. P 15MA001 Rohit Kumar MT
113. P 15EE001 Abhishek Sahu EE
114. P 15EE002 Arpita Jaitawat EE
115. P 15EE003 Poonam Sahu EE
116. P 15EE004 Shivam Chaturvedi EE
117. P 15VSS001 Divya Srivastava VSS
118. P 15VSS002 Divya Sharma VSS
119. P 15VSS003 Tushar Shankar Shinde VSS
120. P 15VSS004 Nanduri Kameswara Swarun VSS
121. P 15VSS005 Mahmood Shaik VSS
122. P 15VSS006 Gajendra Singh Chawda VSS
123. P 15HS201 Abhra Paul HSS
125. P 15EE201 Rajesh Shukla EE
126. P 15EE202 Yogesh Kumar EE
127. P 15EE203 Rahul Kumar EE
128. P 15VSS201 Aditya Raj VSS

129. P 15VSS202 Neeraj Goel VSS
130. P 15VSS203 Abhishek Kumar VSS
131. P 15ME201 Aniket Dilip Monde ME
132. P 15ME202 Vibhuti Bhushan Pandey ME
133. P 15ME203 Ankit Agarwal ME
S. No. Roll No. Name Department
1. P14VSS001 Adarsh Nigam EE
2. P14VSS002 Amrik Singh EE
3. P14VSS003 Ishan Varun EE
4. P14VSS004 Rahul Kumar EE
5. P14VSS005 Nupur Rathore EE
6. P14VSS006 Parveen EE
Ph.D. Students registered under “Visvesvaraya Ph.D. Scheme for Electronics and IT”

S. No. Roll No Name Center
1. M14CT003 Ankit Chouhan ICT
2. M14CT004 Anshul Gupta ICT
3. M14CT005 Charu Gupta ICT
4. M14CT006 Piyush Kumar Jaiswal ICT
5. M14CT008 Prem Raj ICT
6. M14CT009 Raj Singh Parihar ICT
7. M14CT012 Vivek Raghuwanshi ICT
8. M14EN002 Satish Energy
9. M14EN003 Swarn Kumar Energy
10. M14EN004 Vishwa Deepak Kumar Energy
11. M14SS001 Amit Kumar Gangwar SS
12. M14SS002 Aniruddha Singhal SS
13. M14SS003 Gaurav Jajoo SS
14. M14SS004 Shreya Goyal SS
16. M14SS006 Vipul Bijawat SS
S. No. Roll No Name Department
1. M15ME002 Ashok Verma ME
2. M15ME003 Deepak Raina ME
3. M15ME004 Himanshu Gaur ME
4. M15ME006 Narayan Kumar ME
5. M15ME007 Naveen ME
6. M15ME008 Neha Arora ME
7. M15ME009 Sankalp Singh ME
8. M15ME010 Shiv Ram Suthar ME
9. M15ME011 Shravan Singh Rao ME
10. M15ME012 Shubhendu Prashant Singh ME
11. M15ME013 Tushar Lohora ME
12. M15ME014 Vivek Tripathi ME
13. M15EE004 Chandrashekhar Bhardwaj EE
14. M15EE005 Dinesh Jangid EE
15. M15EE007 Itisha Chauhan EE
16. M15EE008 Lobzang Namgail EE
17. M15EE009 Mohit Kachhwaha EE
18. M15EE010 Prakriti Arya EE
19. M15EE011 Priyanka Siddha EE
20. M15EE013 Saurabh Rawal EE
21. M15EE014 Vineet Kumar EE
Post Graduate Students
M.Tech. Students, Batch 2014
M.Tech. Students, Batch 2015

22. M15EE016 Anil Kumar EE
23. M15EE017 Jitendra Kumar EE
24. M15EE018 Joshi Sonal Sunil EE
S. No. Roll No Name Department
1. M15CY003 Pooja CHM
2. M15CY004 Pranay Rajbangshi CHM
3. M15CY006 Suman Dhara CHM
4. M15CY008 Vikas Kumar CHM
5. M15CY009 Vinay Uniyal CHM
6. M15PH001 Ashish Kumar PH
7. M15PH002 Bernard Lalroliana PH
8. M15PH005 Nidhin Sathyan PH
9. M15PH007 Rashmi Mehla PH
10. M15PH008 Sanjeeda Bharati Das PH
11. M15PH011 Vikrant Chaudhary PH
12. M15MA001 Aarti Balana MT
13. M15MA004 Bhagya Shree Meena MT
14. M15MA007 Dharmendra Kumar Gurjar MT
M.Sc. Students, Batch 2015

S. No. Roll No. Name Branch
1. U G201210001 Abhishek Kumar CSE
2. U G201210002 Aditya Yadav CSE
3. U G201210003 Akash Mishra CSE
4. U G201210004 Akshit Jain CSE
5. U G201210005 Aseem Raj Baranwal CSE
6. U G201210006 Asheet Kumar CSE
7. U G201210007 Attanti Madhurya CSE
8. U G201210008 Bandela Prathyusha CSE
9. U G201210009 Basamgari Harika CSE
10. U G201210010 Bundele Manas Mahesh CSE
11. U G201210011 Dhake Akash Hiraman CSE
12. U G201210012 Dinesh Kumar Jangra CSE
13. U G201210013 Dinesh Kumar Saini CSE
14. U G201210014 Gaurav Shastri CSE
15. U G201210015 Gondi Dedeepya Sai CSE
16. U G201210016 Gorla Uhasree CSE
17. U G201210017 Jinank Jain CSE
18. U G201210018 Kalshetti Pratik Mallinath CSE
19. U G201210019 Kunal Dadheech CSE
20. U G201210020 Mala Muthyalappa CSE
21. U G201210021 Manish Jaiswal CSE
23. U G201210023 Pankaj Kumar CSE
24. U G201210024 Pawan Kumar Saini CSE
25. U G201210025 Rajesh Kumar Meena CSE
26. U G201210026 Rishabh Garg CSE
27. U G201210028 Ritesh Kumar CSE
28. U G201210029 Rohan Khanna CSE
29. U G201210030 Sachin Grover CSE
30. U G201210031 Samarth Kumar Goel CSE
31. U G201210032 Shah Akshat Mukeshkumar CSE
32. U G201210033 Shivam Kumar Garg CSE
33. U G201210034 Siddharth Talesra CSE
34. U G201210035 Sonika Agrawal CSE
35. U G201210036 Sunil Kumar CSE
36. U G201210037 Vaibhav Singh Khokhar CSE
37. U G201210038 Vijendra Sukariya CSE
38. U G201210039 Vikas Meena CSE
39. U G201210040 Ankit Jain CSE
Undergraduate Students
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2012

40. U G201211001 Abhishek Thepra EE
41. U G201211002 Ajay Charan EE
42. U G201211003 Akarsh Rastogi EE
43. U G201211004 Akshay Arya EE
44. U G201211006 Anubhuti Mittal EE
45. U G201211007 Ashwani Kumar EE
46. U G201211008 Ashwani Nainawat EE
47. U G201211009 Deepak Verma EE
48. U G201211010 Devabattini Sriharsha EE
50. U G201211012 Dheeraj P. EE
51. U G201211013 Dinesh Gurjar EE
52. U G201211014 Farazuddin Ansari EE
53. U G201211015 Ghanshyam EE
54. U G201211016 Hitesh Kumar Singhal EE
55. U G201211017 K. V. Vikas Reddy EE
56. U G201211018 Lalit Mirdha EE
57. U G201211019 Mamta Dhaka EE
58. U G201211020 Mukesh Kumar EE
59. U G201211021 Nisha Agrawal EE
60. U G201211022 Nishit Umesh Parekh EE
61. U G201211023 Pawan Kumar Verma EE
62. U G201211024 Piyush Dugar EE
63. U G201211025 Prakash Gehlot EE
65. U G201211028 Rajat R Rahatgaonkar EE
66. U G201211029 Rajnesh Meena EE
67. U G201211030 Sanchit Gupta EE
68. U G201211031 Sanket Jain EE
69. U G201211032 Santosh Kumar Meena EE
70. U G201211033 Saurav Kumar EE
71. U G201211034 Sharath Kuntanhal EE
72. U G201211035 Shivam Upadhyaya EE
73. U G201211036 Shrish Lal Bhatnagar EE
74. U G201211037 Sriramadasu Ashok Kumar EE
75. U G201211038 Sunil Saran EE
76. U G201211039 Tarun Vatwani EE
77. U G201211040 Upendra Kumar Nagar EE
78. U G201211041 Vinay Shankar Saxena EE
79. U G201211042 Antos C. Varghese EE
80. U G201211043 Himanshu Takwani EE
81. U G201212001 Aditya Khandelwal ME
82. U G201212002 Ajay Kumar Jagetiya ME

83. U G201212003 Anjali Bansiwal ME
84. U G201212005 Ashish Kumar ME
85. U G201212006 Ashish Kumar ME
87. U G201212008 Ayush Bhadauria ME
88. U G201212009 B. V. Kishore ME
89. U G201212010 Balla Raghavendar Goud ME
90. U G201212011 Boddupalli Nibodh ME
91. U G201212012 Chamarthy Kameswara Shiva Dinesh ME
92. U G201212013 Chetan Gupta ME
94. U G201212015 Dilkhush Meena ME
95. U G201212017 Himanshu Yadav ME
96. U G201212018 Kamlesh Aseri ME
97. U G201212019 Kanak Shrivastava ME
98. U G201212020 Manish Soni ME
99. U G201212021 N. Vinaykumar Reddy ME
100. U G201212022 Navneet Mittal ME
101. U G201212023 Pavan Kumar Shakya ME
102. U G201212024 Sachin Yadav ME
103. U G201212025 Sandeep Kumar Meena ME
104. U G201212026 Saurabh Jain ME
105. U G201212027 Saurabh Pandey ME
106. U G201212028 Shah Jigar Deepak ME
107. U G201212030 Shreyas Srivastava ME
108. U G201212031 Shubham Gupta ME
109. U G201212032 Snigdhadeep Moitra ME
111. U G201212034 Surendra Pal Singh ME
112. U G201212035 Tapesh Kumar Mourya ME
113. U G201212036 Thani Aswanth ME
114. U G201212037 Vaibhav Gupta ME
115. U G201212038 Varun Suryan ME
116. U G201212039 Vikash Kumar Goenka ME
117. U G201212040 Vishal Kumar ME
118. U G201212041 Anshuman Singh ME
119. U G201212042 Kirti Vardhan Rathore ME
120. U G201213002 Anmol SS
121. U G201213005 Divya Nagar SS
122. U G201213006 Gaurav Choudhary SS
123. U G201213007 Gourab Kumar Patro SS
125. U G201213013 Kota V. Aakash SS

126. U G201213014 Kshitij Soni SS
127. U G201213016 Mahendra Kachhawa SS
128. U G201213018 Manish Malhotra SS
129. U G201213019 Narender Kumar SS
130. U G201213020 Paladugu Venkata Karteek SS
131. U G201213021 Palash Jain SS
132. U G201213022 Parag Rahangdale SS
133. U G201213023 Pise Indraneel Rajnish SS
134. U G201213024 Pragati Nagar SS
135. U G201213025 Prasoon SS
136. U G201213026 Priyanka Raju Masne SS
137. U G201213027 Purvi Tiwari SS
138. U G201213028 Raghunath Meena SS
140. U G201213031 Rochika SS
141. U G201213033 Sharwan Songara SS
142. U G201213034 Shivam Choudhary SS
143. U G201213035 Shreshtha Garg SS
144. U G201213036 Sunil Suthar SS
145. U G201213037 Vibhav Sharma SS
Sl. No. Roll No Name Branch
1. UG201310001 Aakash Asija CSE
2. UG201310002 Aayush Sharda CSE
3. UG201310003 Abhay Kumar Singh CSE
4. UG201310004 Aman CSE
5. UG201310005 Amit Jain CSE
6. UG201310006 Anjali Malav CSE
7. UG201310007 Archit Agrawal CSE
8. UG201310008 Arnav Chopra CSE
9. UG201310009 Arnav Jindal CSE
10. UG201310010 Avan Jayendra Rathod CSE
11. UG201310011 Bharti CSE
12. UG201310012 Bharti Arya CSE
13. UG201310013 Dishant Goyal CSE
14. UG201310014 Hemant Pratap Singh CSE
15. UG201310015 Kartik Singh CSE
16. UG201310016 Komanduri Sai Raghava CSE
17. UG201310017 Kushagra Surana CSE
18. UG201310018 Mahendra Kumar Jat CSE
19. UG201310019 Makarand Milind Gomashe CSE
20. UG201310020 Muttineni Navya CSE
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2013

21. UG201310021 Nikhil Jeevansingh Taji CSE
22. UG201310022 Nithin V. CSE
23. UG201310023 Piyush Yadav CSE
24. UG201310024 Priyank Arya CSE
25. UG201310025 Rajkumar Meena CSE
26. UG201310026 Ramkesh Meena CSE
27. UG201310027 Ravi Prakash Gupta CSE
28. UG201310028 Ravindra Kumar Saini CSE
29. UG201310029 Riteek Srivastav CSE
30. UG201310030 Shiv Bhagwan CSE
31. UG201310031 Shiv Kumar Sen CSE
32. UG201310032 Shiv Mohan CSE
33. UG201310033 Shubham Saxena CSE
34. UG201310035 Sourav Khoso CSE
35. UG201310036 Suresh Gehlot CSE
36. UG201310037 Tapan Bhatnagar CSE
37. UG201310038 Upendra Singh Chauhan CSE
38. UG201310039 Vaghela Rajan Arvindkumar CSE
39. UG201310040 Vaibhav Paliwal CSE
40. UG201310041 Vivek Lata CSE
41. UG201311001 Abhishek Agrawal EE
42. UG201311002 Abhishek Jaju EE
43. UG201311003 Abhishek Kumar Yadav EE
44. UG201311004 Amit Kumar EE
45. UG201311005 Anirudh Singh Shaktawat EE
46. UG201311006 Ankit Garg EE
47. UG201311007 Anshul Agarwal EE
48. UG201311008 Anshul Yadav EE
49. UG201311009 Ashok Kumar EE
50. UG201311010 Ashutosh Gupta EE
51. UG201311011 Ashutosh Vaishnav EE
52. UG201311012 Bhabhuta Ram EE
53. UG201311013 Dinesh Kumar Danwa EE
54. UG201311014 Dipender Singh Ridmalot EE
55. UG201311015 Ekant Kumar EE
56. UG201311016 Gurpinder Singh EE
57. UG201311017 Hede Tejan Rohit EE
58. UG201311018 Hemant Meena EE
59. UG201311019 Kanika Mahajan EE
60. UG201311020 Khushbu Saxena EE
61. UG201311021 Kshitij Sandeep Minocha EE
62. UG201311022 Mohit Gupta EE
63. UG201311023 Niranjan Sanodia EE
64. UG201311024 Paduru Kandarpa Sai EE
65. UG201311025 Prakhar Gupta EE

66. UG201311026 Rahul Jain EE
67. UG201311027 Rajendra Kumar Yadav EE
68. UG201311028 Ramdev Bhichar EE
69. UG201311029 Rishikesh Meena EE
70. UG201311030 Shraddha Garg EE
71. UG201311031 Siddhant Jain EE
72. UG201311032 Sisodiya Vrushali EE
73. UG201311033 Sneha Gupta EE
74. UG201311034 Sumit Pegwal EE
75. UG201311035 Sushant Gautam EE
76. UG201311036 Syed Afshan Ali EE
77. UG201311037 Talloju Jawahar EE
78. UG201311038 Tiloka Ram EE
79. UG201311039 V. Ashwin EE
80. UG201311040 Vaibhav Sharma EE
81. UG201312001 Aditya Saxena ME
82. UG201312002 Akhil Mehta ME
83. UG201312003 Amit Kumar ME
84. UG201312004 Ankit Raipuria ME
85. UG201312005 Arpit Kumar Gahlot ME
86. UG201312006 Ayush Raina ME
87. UG201312007 Balveer Danga ME
88. UG201312008 Bhaskarjyoti Barman ME
89. UG201312009 Dheeraj Kumar Sisodiya ME
90. UG201312010 Dron Airon ME
91. UG201312011 Hardik Jain ME
92. UG201312012 Harsh Vardhan Shrivastava ME
93. UG201312013 Himanshu Agrawal ME
94. UG201312014 Himanshu Kumar Singh ME
95. UG201312015 Himanshu Sharma ME
96. UG201312016 K. Lakshmi Phalguni ME
97. UG201312017 Kanuganti Vamshi ME
98. UG201312018 Lakshaya Bhatt ME
99. UG201312019 Lakshman Kumar ME
100. UG201312020 Lokesh Swami ME
101. UG201312021 Manish Rajendra Jadhav ME
102. UG201312022 Mayank Gupta ME
103. UG201312023 Mohammed Firoz ME
104. UG201312024 Mohit Agarwal ME
105. UG201312025 Patel Harsh Bhupendrabhai ME
106. UG201312026 Pradyuman Meena ME
107. UG201312027 Prakhar Srivastava ME
108. UG201312028 Pushpendra Dhurwe ME
109. UG201312029 Pushpendra Mishra ME
110. UG201312030 Rohan Kumar ME

111. UG201312031 Rohit Singh ME
112. UG201312032 Sachin ME
113. UG201312033 Shubham Shaurya ME
114. UG201312034 Subham Teji ME
115. UG201312035 Vaghela Nirav Jitendrakumar ME
116. UG201312036 Vaibhav Jain ME
117. UG201312037 Vikas Kumar ME
118. UG201312038 Vikrant Arora ME
119. UG201312039 Viraat Srivastava ME
120. UG201313002 Aman Ajmera SS
121. UG201313003 Anirudh Vyas SS
122. UG201313004 Arvind Saini SS
123. UG201313005 Ayush Bhaskar SS
124. UG201313006 Darapaneni Chandana SS
125. UG201313007 Deepika Jalli SS
126. UG201313008 Deepshi Garg SS
127. UG201313010 Gaikwad Sangram Dasharath SS
128. UG201313011 Gourav Singh SS
129. UG201313013 Jayant Carpenter SS
130. UG201313014 Jayant V. Khapre SS
131. UG201313015 Joshi Achyut Sanjay SS
132. UG201313016 Lingala Prasantha Kumar SS
133. UG201313017 Mandeep SS
134. UG201313018 Naresh Kumar Prajapati SS
135. UG201313019 P Manisha SS
136. UG201313020 Pankaj Panwar SS
137. UG201313021 Pankaj Yadav SS
138. UG201313023 Perla Sukesh SS
139. UG201313024 Pinkesh Kumar SS
140. UG201313025 Prabhash Jain SS
141. UG201313026 Prakhar Mathur SS
142. UG201313027 Pramod Kumar SS
143. UG201313028 Prashant Kumar SS
144. UG201313029 Pulavarthy Anirudh SS
145. UG201313030 Rohil Surana SS
146. UG201313031 Rohit Kumar SS
147. UG201313032 Sangepu Ashrith SS
148. UG201313033 Saroj Prasad Chhatoi SS
149. UG201313034 Sheela Meena SS
150. UG201313035 Shipra Jain SS
151. UG201313036 Shubham Singh SS
152. UG201313037 Tarun Devireddy SS
153. UG201313038 Vishal Kumar SS
154. UG201314001 Abhishek Thombre BISS
155. UG201314002 Aditya Choudhary BISS

156. UG201314003 Ajay Kumar Kumawat BISS
157. UG201314004 Arnav Mishra BISS
158. UG201314005 Chandresh Kumar BISS
159. UG201314006 Dhanajit Brahma BISS
160. UG201314007 Himanshu Sikaria BISS
161. UG201314008 Jalaj Sharma BISS
162. UG201314010 Kaushtubh Kumar BISS
163. UG201314011 Kuldeep Meena BISS
164. UG201314012 Nisha Kumari BISS
165. UG201314013 Pranjal Singh BISS
166. UG201314014 Rakesh Yadav BISS
167. UG201314015 Sharath Challapalli BISS
168. UG201314017 Shrey Maheshwari BISS
169. UG201314018 Ujjwal Anand BISS
Sl. No. Roll No Name Branch
1. B14CS001 Abhimanyu Singh Gaur CSE
2. B14CS002 Abhinav Rai CSE
3. B14CS003 Ajeet Goyal CSE
4. B14CS004 Ajeet Ujjwal CSE
5. B14CS005 Ankita Muzalda CSE
7. B14CS007 Anurag Sanyal CSE
8. B14CS008 Archil Kumar Srivastava CSE
9. B14CS009 Ashish Sahu CSE
10. B14CS010 Ayush Agrawal CSE
11. B14CS011 B Sree Siddharth CSE
12. B14CS012 Bharat Singh CSE
13. B14CS013 Chaudhari Akshay Gajanan CSE
14. B14CS014 Daval Pargal CSE
15. B14CS015 Dhruv Sharma CSE
16. B14CS016 Edula Hari Hara Reddy CSE
17. B14CS017 Ganesh Bhimrao Patil CSE
18. B14CS018 Garimella Sravan CSE
19. B14CS019 Gaurav Kamal CSE
20. B14CS020 Gutapu Raj Kumar CSE
21. B14CS021 Hitesh Hingorani CSE
22. B14CS022 Kommuru Vinay Kumar CSE
23. B14CS023 Mahendra Meena CSE
24. B14CS024 Manish Goyal CSE
25. B14CS025 Pranav Arora CSE
26. B14CS026 Pushpinder CSE
27. B14CS027 Rinku Kumar Meena CSE
28. B14CS028 Rishabh Shukla CSE
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2014

29. B14CS029 Robin Gaur CSE
30. B14CS030 Rohit Paliwal CSE
31. B14CS031 Sahil Dhiman CSE
32. B14CS032 Sandeep Charan CSE
33. B14CS033 Rohan Govind Saraf CSE
34. B14CS034 Saurav Suman CSE
35. B14CS035 Shubham Jain CSE
36. B14CS036 Snehal Azad CSE
37. B14CS037 Sunil Choudhary CSE
38. B14CS039 Varun Kumar CSE
39. B14CS040 Vijay Kumar Paliwal CSE
40. B14EE001 Abhishek Mandwale EE
41. B14EE002 Abhishek Meena EE
42. B14EE003 Akshat Shrivastava EE
43. B14EE004 Anand Kumar EE
44. B14EE005 Ankush Garg EE
45. B14EE006 Anusha Gupta EE
46. B14EE007 Archit Sharma EE
47. B14EE009 Dara Shanmukha Sai Sanjay Gupta EE
48. B14EE010 Deepanshu Bhojak EE
49. B14EE011 Guntuku Deepak EE
50. B14EE012 Himanshu Verma EE
51. B14EE013 Jaiswal Ronak Nilesh EE
52. B14EE014 Jay Bhavin Sheth EE
53. B14EE015 Kanika Jakhar EE
54. B14EE016 Kaviti Sarath Kalyan EE
55. B14EE017 Kumari Saumya EE
56. B14EE018 Mahak Jain EE
57. B14EE020 Mohit Mehta EE
58. B14EE021 Naveen Kumar Chittoriya EE
59. B14EE022 Parmar Sunny Mukeshkumar EE
60. B14EE023 Piyush Sharma EE
61. B14EE024 Rahul Negi EE
62. B14EE025 Ramesh Kumar EE
63. B14EE026 Ravindra Parihar EE
64. B14EE027 Rishabh Bhardwaj EE
65. B14EE028 Ritu Singh EE
66. B14EE029 Sachin Mandowara EE
67. B14EE030 Shah Neelkumar Sureshkumar EE
68. B14EE031 Shivani Meena EE
69. B14EE032 Shounak Kulkarni EE
70. B14EE033 Sudhir Pratap Yadav EE
71. B14EE034 Thara Giriraj Prasad EE
72. B14EE035 Tripti Meena EE
73. B14EE036 Vamsi Prudhvi Chintaguntala EE

74. B14EE037 Vanam Bhanu Sai Simha EE
75. B14EE038 Vidit Jain EE
76. B14EE039 Vivek EE
77. B14EE040 Yasharth Sahu EE
78. B14ME001 Abhishek Sharma ME
79. B14ME003 Akhil Bindal ME
80. B14ME004 Akshay Vinay Bapat ME
82. B14ME006 Anandhu Suresh ME
83. B14ME007 Bandi Sai Mukesh ME
84. B14ME008 Boghara Pruthvi Rameshbhai ME
85. B14ME010 Jerry Mathew Oommen ME
86. B14ME011 Kartik Venkata Ramachandruni ME
87. B14ME012 Katakam Harsha Sai Manohar ME
88. B14ME013 Kuldeep Meena ME
89. B14ME014 Madhvendra Tiwari ME
90. B14ME015 Manoj Malviya ME
91. B14ME016 Mohammad Sharey ME
92. B14ME017 Mohit Vijay ME
93. B14ME019 Parella Ravi Teja ME
94. B14ME020 Patel Pranav Nareshbhai ME
95. B14ME021 Pawan Kumar ME
96. B14ME022 Pothula Krishna Teja ME
97. B14ME023 Rachit ME
98. B14ME024 Rahul Chanania ME
99. B14ME025 Rajendra Manda ME
100. B14ME026 Rishabh Badodia ME
101. B14ME027 Santhoju Shiva ME
102. B14ME028 Santhosh M ME
103. B14ME030 Shinde Shubham Bhaskar ME
104. B14ME031 Shivam Jaiswal ME
105. B14ME032 Shivam Srivastava ME
106. B14ME034 Shubham Kaushal ME
107. B14ME035 Sutariya Monark ME
108. B14ME036 Suyog Bodhankar ME
109. B14ME037 Udit Singh Parihar ME
110. B14ME038 Uma Shankar Sharma ME
111. B14ME039 Vanditi Mathur ME
112. B14ME040 Vedant Bhuyar ME
113. B14SS002 Angad Singh Sabherwal SS
114. B14SS003 B Sai Chaitanya SS
115. B14SS006 Devanshu Bhavin Kathrecha SS
116. B14SS007 K. Tejas Reddy SS
117. B14SS008 Katragadda Karthik SS
118. B14SS009 Mansi Mittal SS

119. B14SS011 Pranali Pawar SS
120. B14SS013 Raj Prajapat SS
121. B14SS017 Shreyansh Chhajer SS
122. B14SS018 Tejas Gattani SS
123. B14SS019 Vaibhav Baban Ganer SS
124. B14SS020 Yashwant Kumar Meena SS
125. B14BS005 Dinesh Kumar Maurya BISS
126. B14BS006 Divya Naval BISS
127. B14BS009 Kumar Venkateshwar BISS
128. B14BS011 Mahesh BISS
129. B14BS014 Sahil Bhatia BISS
130. B14BS015 Shubham Talbar BISS
131. B14BS016 Vishal Verma BISS
S. No. Roll No Name Branch
1. B15CS001 Abhishek Sah CSE
2. B15CS002 Aditya Agrawal CSE
3. B15CS003 Akash Gupta CSE
4. B15CS004 Akshay Agrawal CSE
5. B15CS005 Amitansh Gangwar CSE
6. B15CS006 Amol Thakur CSE
7. B15CS007 Anant Kumar Singh CSE
8. B15CS008 Ankit Kumar CSE
9. B15CS009 Anmol Chhabra CSE
10. B15CS010 Aryaman Singh CSE
11. B15CS011 Ashish Mittal CSE
12. B15CS012 Ashish Yadav CSE
13. B15CS013 Bagannagari Vinay Kumar Reddy CSE
14. B15CS014 Bhamare Nikhil Daryavsing CSE
15. B15CS015 Bhuma Ayyappa Sumanth CSE
16. B15CS016 Deewan Singh CSE
17. B15CS017 Divyansh Aggarwal CSE
18. B15CS018 Harsh Akshit CSE
19. B15CS019 Harshit Singh CSE
20. B15CS020 Indra Kumar Malav CSE
21. B15CS021 Joukani Vinit Pradeep CSE
22. B15CS022 Kansagara Bhargav Dineshbhai CSE
23. B15CS023 Kishan Sharma CSE
24. B15CS024 Kongi Arunsrivardhan CSE
25. B15CS025 Marali Jagadeesh CSE
26. B15CS027 Praveen Kumar T CSE
27. B15CS028 Rajat Babel CSE
28. B15CS029 Rajat Mangla CSE
29. B15CS030 Rajesh Meena CSE
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2015

30. B15CS031 Rashi Sahu CSE
31. B15CS032 Rashmi Sahu CSE
32. B15CS033 Rishabh Arun Kanabar CSE
33. B15CS034 Shubham Kumar CSE
34. B15CS035 Shukla Anugrah Harish Kumar CSE
35. B15CS036 Singamsetty Sandeep CSE
36. B15CS037 Sushil Kumar CSE
37. B15CS038 Swapnil Ganesh Athawale CSE
38. B15CS039 Vinayak Singla CSE
39. B15CS040 Vishesh Mistry CSE
40. B15EE003 Akshat Agrawal EE
41. B15EE004 Amitesh Kumar Jigyasu EE
42. B15EE005 Anurag EE
43. B15EE006 Ashish Gambhir EE
44. B15EE007 B Visveswaraiah EE
45. B15EE008 Bhanwar Singh Choudhary EE
46. B15EE009 Braj Raj Nagar EE
47. B15EE010 Chirayu Parashar EE
48. B15EE011 Dheeraj Dhariwal EE
49. B15EE012 Divyanshu Agarwal EE
50. B15EE013 Gadde Harshavardhan EE
51. B15EE014 Gyandeep Singh EE
52. B15EE015 Inderpreet Singh Chhabra EE
53. B15EE016 Jeet Shah EE
54. B15EE017 Karanveer Singh Thakur EE
55. B15EE018 Krunal Sanjay Chirmade EE
56. B15EE019 Kuldeep Verma EE
57. B15EE020 Lalit Kumar Bamanawat EE
58. B15EE021 Milind Singhal EE
59. B15EE022 Nikhil Negi EE
60. B15EE023 Nilesh Kumar Tiwari EE
61. B15EE024 Pradeep Choudhary EE
62. B15EE025 Pranab Kumar EE
63. B15EE026 Rahul Meena EE
64. B15EE028 Ramnarayan Choudhary EE
65. B15EE029 Riya Chaudhary EE
66. B15EE030 Sameer Jalutharia EE
67. B15EE031 Sarthak Desai EE
68. B15EE032 Saurabh Jangir EE
69. B15EE034 Shitendra Kumar Tyagi EE
70. B15EE035 Shreyas Malakarjun Patil EE
71. B15EE036 Shubham Bhargava EE
72. B15EE037 Somender Singh EE
73. B15EE038 Sonu Kumar EE
74. B15EE039 Vadde Keerthi Aishwarya EE

75. B15EE040 Vaibhav Sharma EE
76. B15ME001 Aarush Gupta ME
77. B15ME002 Abhinay Kumar ME
78. B15ME003 Abhishek Meena ME
79. B15ME004 Aditya Raj Malviya ME
80. B15ME006 Alukapally Gnanadeep ME
81. B15ME007 Aniket Janrao ME
82. B15ME008 Ankit Jangir ME
83. B15ME009 Ankit Mangal ME
84. B15ME010 Ashutosh Pathak ME
85. B15ME012 Ayush Upadhyay ME
86. B15ME013 Chandrapratap Singh Raghuvanshi ME
87. B15ME014 Dhagash Desai ME
88. B15ME015 Divyanshu Goyal ME
89. B15ME016 Gandi Rajesh ME
90. B15ME017 Gaurav Meena ME
91. B15ME018 Gourav Jeengar ME
92. B15ME019 Karthik Mohan ME
93. B15ME021 Keshetty Sai Surya ME
94. B15ME023 Krishna Goyal ME
95. B15ME024 Meka Lalit Sai Chandra Reddy ME
96. B15ME025 Mukul Bansal ME
97. B15ME026 Nakka Sanket Gangadhar ME
98. B15ME027 Neelansh Kamboj ME
99. B15ME028 Nitish Kumar ME
100. B15ME030 Perisetla Srinivasa Deepak ME
101. B15ME031 Quadri Syed Mujtaba Syed Maqsood ME
102. B15ME032 Ramesh Kumar ME
103. B15ME033 Ritwik Kulkarni ME
104. B15ME034 Saurabh Yadav ME
105. B15ME035 Sharan Saarsar ME
106. B15ME036 Somesh Sharma ME
107. B15ME037 Sunil Kumar Sakhnia ME
108. B15ME038 Vartha Divyesh Yashvant ME
109. B15ME039 Vineet Singh Chauhan ME
110. B15ME040 Vivek Kumar Singh ME
111. B15BS001 Ankur Kamboj ME
112. B15ME005 Akash Gupta ME

FINANCIAL POSITION
The MHRD has released a sum of Rs. 14625.00 Lakhs as Grant-in-Aid under Normal
Plan Head and Rs. 946.68 Lakh as opening balance as on 01-04-2015. The internal income of 
the Institute was Rs. 828.05 Lakh. The total Plan expenditure during the year was Rs. 
13633.61 Lakh (Recurring Rs. 2852.76 Lakh and Non-Recurring Rs. 10780.85 Lakh).

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Old Residency Road, Ratanada, Jodhpur 342011
Annual Report 
2015-16