SOURCE_PDF: 48ad25cb6207_PG-salient-features-of-specializations-638771976742762864.pdf

Salient features of specialization
i. 
Focus on advanced concepts in fluid flow and heat transfer with emphasis on various applied 
problems
ii. 
State of the art exposure to computational techniques for fluid flow and heat transfer problems
iii. 
Hands on exposure to various advanced experimental techniques in fluid flow and heat 
transfer
iv. 
Industry internship and project collaborations
v. 
The active classroom learning methodology
M.Tech (Advanced Manufacturing and Design)
i. 
Focus areas of Advanced Manufacturing include Smart manufacturing and Industry 4.0, 
Multiscale Manufacturing and Processing of novel materials
ii. 
These programs offer state of the art exposure to Advanced Manufacturing processes which 
will prepare students to contribute to global research problems.
iii. 
Advanced manufacturing students under this specially designed curriculum will be able to 
commence academic and industrial research in thematic areas using analytical, computational 
and experimental tools.
iv. 
Dual degree program aims to impart knowledge of fundamentals required to understand the 
recent manufacturing trends and approaches using the Internet of things, machine learning, 
sensors, etc. for problem-solving required in modern manufacturing industries.
v. 
Students will acquire knowledge of hybrid processing methodologies, research capabilities 
associated with miniaturization/smart manufacturing, novel engineering materials, 
microsystems fabrication, Industry 4.0 and most importantly, will be trained to perform 
collaborative work with an interdisciplinary approach.
vi. 
Facilities to design, develop and manufacture new or modified components for mechanical 
systems using computer-aided design/modeling software/additive manufacturing
vii. 
Focus areas include advanced mechanics of solids, robotics, dynamics of land and aerial 
vehicles, vibration and experimental modal analysis, acoustics, development of noise control 
methods, diagnostics and prognostics of dynamic systems, Computer-aided design, Finite 
element analysis, design, and optimization, MEMS/NANO
viii. 
Hands-on exposure through experiments and design complemented with exposure to state of 
the art tools like MATLAB, Ansys, Abaqus, Adams, SolidWorks, Creo, Pro/E, Multi-physics 
software & Multi-body simulator.