SOURCE_PDF: 4a1b701b4742_Open-House-Report-School-of-Liberal-Arts-11-3-2023.pdf

SCHOOL OF LIBERAL ARTS
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Report on Open House Padharo 2.0
Tonisha Guin, Assistant Professor of Literary and Cultural Studies
Farhat Naz, Head and Associate Professor of Sociology
The faculty and students of the School of Liberal Arts (SoLA) welcomed a steady stream of 
enthusiastic school children, college students, and other, equally curious locals of different age 
groups from Jodhpur city to the School during IIT Jodhpur’s Open House Padharo 2.0 held on 
February 12, 2023. It was truly remarkable to participate in an event in which our visitors were 
warmly welcomed and shown around the SoLA premises. The humility and friendliness of the 
members of faculty, students and staff bear mentioning. Some of the research undertaken by 
students and faculty was exhibited through poster presentations, which showcased a passion for 
learning and building a culture of excellence in interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary education 
and research. The film screenings, puzzles, games, and interactive sessions around the poster were

deeply 
appreciated. 
The 
audience
included a truly diverse group of 
visitors across age, gender, linguistic, 
religious, and income groups. Despite 
the 
diversity, 
the 
enthusiasm 
of
everyone participating resonated with 
the way in which they could connect 
with the themes and concerns the 
School’s exhibits and presentations 
showcased. The interactions between 
the SoLA team and the guests thus 
evolved into an excellent instance of the 
way in which the School seeks to foster 
humanitarian values, diversity and 
inclusiveness. The discussions between the extremely cosmopolitan members of faculty, students, 
and visitors created a dynamic interactive, mutually appreciative social space. Through various 
showcases of academic work, the team from SoLA showed that it firmly believes in academic 
excellence with pedagogical innovations that represent its dedication and commitment to the 
vision of the School and IIT Jodhpur. Just as importantly, it emphasised on the way in which it 
foregrounds a discourse that seeks to be inclusive and relatable. The team at the School of Liberal 
Arts believes in the principles on which it was founded: quality education in the Liberal Arts is a 
primary a primary requisite for solving the multidimensional challenges that our current and 
future generations face. Through the interest of the general public on our projects and courses, the 
fact that it has managed to realise this core principle became very evident. The research, pedagogy,
and 
outreach 
of 
SoLA 
has
particularly 
emphasised 
on
recognizing 
and 
amplifying
disciplinary intersections in the 
Creative Arts, Humanities, Social 
Sciences, Natural Sciences and 
Technologies. The feedback we 
received from academics and 
industry experts and laymen alike 
reflected 
that 
this
interdisciplinarity was one of 
their primary impressions of our 
work. We hope to continue 
engaging with the wider public in 
similar ways.

FILM SCREENING
Several short films, including 
the documentary-infomercial 
'IIT Jodhpur: A Pearl in the 
Desert' were shown by the 
team. The films were screened 
in 
the 
SoLA 
classroom.
Hundreds of students and 
adults 
attended 
them 
in
batches with great enthusiasm 
and fascination.
The film screening was held 
with the goal of sensitizing the 
audience about the general 
understanding of the medium 
called cinema through films, 
posters and quotations. As a
result, the films covered a wide range of subjects, from aesthetically rich classics like Charlie Chaplin 
films to socially conscious shorts. Easy accessibility despite language barriers played a key role in 
the success of this activity. Volunteers of the team conducted interactive sessions with the audience, 
highlighting the key concerns of Film and Media Studies, at the end of a screening. Besides the active 
participation in these discussions, the feedback on the film screening was extremely positive.

POSTER PRESENTATIONS
The different posters presented 
showed not only the range of 
subjects taught at the School, 
but also the scope of (often 
interdisciplinary) 
research
conducted by the members of 
faculty 
and 
doctoral 
and
graduate students. The posters 
generated a lot of curious 
questions from the audience. 
The 
aesthetics 
and 
the
presentations 
(choice 
of
graphs) played as much of a role 
as the engaged conversations 
initiated around them by the presenters. Not only the locals but also senior academics and 
administrative office holders visiting from outside Jodhpur graced the event and spent a 
considerable amount of time discussing the 
relevance of the different projects, especially 
community-based ones, with the presenting 
members of faculty. The key themes of each 
poster is shared in brief notes below for a 
better understanding of the showcase:
1. ‘4E Cognition and Narrative Self’
Dr. Hari Narayanan
The 
narrative 
self 
co-evolves 
in 
an
environment that gives the sense that our self 
is the totality of our experiences. Our 
experience is not a single process; we 
propose understanding the narrative self's 
construction through the characteristics of 
4E 
cognition 
(engaging 
with 
the
environment, our brain, body, tools, and 
other 
social 
agents). 
This 
study 
will
investigate the generation of the narrative 
self with the help of the 4E cognition.

2. ‘Mary in the Jackson Room’
Dr. Hari Narayanan and Mr. Biplab Karak
The 
poster 
presented
Jackson's 
thought
experimental case of Mary 
learning about the relevant 
physics and biology of 
colour vision while herself 
being deprived of non-
black-and-white 
colour
vision and its aftermath, 
when Mary sees a red apple 
for the first time ever in her 
life. The poster focused on 
drawing 
some 
possible
implications 
from 
the
presented 
scenario 
and
apply it on our existing 
understanding of physical 
science to critically look at 
our 
scientific
understanding of conscious 
experience. The mentioned 
case was presented in the 
poster with the intent to problematise the issue of how any purely quantitative attempt at 
understanding conscious experience fails and also to introduce the visitors to the notion of qualia, 
without which grasping the hard problem seems quite unlikely. As reported by the visitors, the 
poster managed to catch their attention and the presentation done by Biplab K was consequently 
received well.
3. ‘Technologically Manipulated Information: Its Ecosystem and Its Psycho-Social Impact’
Prof. Chhanda Chakraborti with Mr. Divyanshu Pathak
The poster showcased an ICSSR funded transdisciplinary research project titled “An 
Interdisciplinary Study of Technologically Manipulated Information: Its Ecosystem and its Psycho-
Social Impact.” The research team for this unique study is truly multidisciplinary. It briefly 
presented the theoretical framework developed for the project, and the research objectives of the

ongoing project. The term ‘Technologically Manipulated Information’ (TMI) has been coined by the 
team, and it represents information that has been manipulated by AI-based tools, such as Deep 
Learning (DL), GAN, Diffusion model. TMI covers the problematic ‘fake news’, ‘fake videos, as well 
as ‘deep fake’. The research gaps in the current literature and the consequent research questions 
arising were presented. A novel contribution of the research team is to use the Actor Network 
Theory (ANT) of Bruno Latour, Michael Callon from sociology as the conceptual framework for 
understanding the genesis, the dissemination, the believability of TMI, and even the institutional
mechanisms 
for
detection and control 
of TMI; in short, the 
ecosystem of TMI. The 
study 
will 
actually
generate 
text 
to
synthetic 
images
suitable for the Indian 
population, 
and
conduct experiments 
to 
draw
conclusions. 
 
The
poster 
used 
a
schematic diagram of 
the 
ecosystem
developed by the team
as a rich visual aid for comprehension. The implications of the project were noted at last to specify 
the practical applications of the project which will be used for the benefit of the populace. People 
took active interest in the poster, presented by Project Research Associate Divyanshu Pathak, and 
were pleased to witness such a novel, transdisciplinary effort to use the domains of technology and 
liberal arts together to tackle such a critical issue of the contemporary times. Some visitors were 
curious about the methodology and asked technical questions. Some others provided valuable 
feedback, all of which were duly noted by the presenter.
4. ‘It begins in delight: Insights from an English Preschool Reading Program in Russia’
Dr. Rachel Philip
The poster showcased the action research project called ‘StoryTime’. This was a bilingual book 
club for children from ages of 4 to 7 years, which was conducted in the city of Innopolis from
July 2020 to June 2021. The research explores how we can understand the interface between 
the affective response of children to stories in a foreign language (English) and the aspirations 
of their parents. The genesis and evolution of the book club was explained to interested visitors

who were curious about the larger 
socio-cultural context of Russia where 
the English language is a locus of 
desire and aspiration for upwardly-
mobile and middle-class Russians. The 
different phases of the project were 
also described to those who were 
curious about its design. Viewers were 
interested in understanding how 
children’s 
affective 
responses 
to
storytelling 
were 
identified 
and
documented, especially in the context 
of cultural and linguistic differences. 
One of the individuals recalled his 
experience of 
reading 
translated
Russian story books in English,
attesting to a larger cultural history of shared experiences between India and Russia.
5. ‘Community-Based & Traditional Water Management in Changing Climate: A Study from
Dr. Farhat Naz, Mr. Amir Sohel, Ms. Surabhi Singh, Ms. Kritika Mishra, Mr. Gautam Kumar, 
and Mr. Sibsankar Pradhan
The poster unveiled various traditional and community-based water management techniques in 
Rajasthan. It also analyzed how traditional community-based water management could be a way 
forward to sustainably manage water 
resources in times of climate emergency. 
Since Rajasthan is an extremely water-
stressed region, local communities have 
adopted 
various 
water 
conservation
strategies, e.g., Taanka, Taalab, Jhalara, 
Khadin, Bandhi, etc. Community-based 
water 
management 
techniques 
vastly
increases the accessibility of water for 
agricultural and domestic purposes. 
The audience easily connected to the poster 
and 
proactively 
participated 
in 
the
discussion. The topic covers their everyday 
life 
around 
water 
and 
the 
issues
surrounding 
climate 
change.

The presenters humbly answered questions raised by the visitors and it was an engaging and lively 
discussion. Also a lot of college students and school kids were curious to know more about the 
traditional water harvesting techniques in Rajasthan. The topic also covered the various policy 
measures adopted by the Ministry of Jal Shakti, Government of India. 
 
6. Poster on Cinema Studies
Dr. Parichay Patra, Mr. 
Sanjay K. Bissoyi, Mr. 
Bhairab 
Barman, 
Ms.
Parnika 
Agarwal, 
Ms.
Garima, 
Ms. 
Nurdini
Tsabitul Chusna
This poster showcases the 
Cinema Studies work being 
conducted at IIT Jodhpur's 
SoLA 
under 
the
supervision of Dr. Parichay 
Patra. Dr. Patra himself is 
currently 
involved 
in
transnational film projects. 
Sanjay K. Bissoyi focuses 
on 
regional 
cinema
politics, Bhairab Barman
on film aesthetics, Parnika Agarwal on film history, Garima on gender aspects of films, and 
Nurdini Tsabitul Chusna on Indonesian films. The poster presents these topics, and the 
presenters answered the audience's queries in a gracious and humble manner.
7. ‘Spatial and Digital Literary Studies’
Dr. Parichay Patra with Ms. Swarnima Bannerjee and Mr. Samya Brata Roy
This joint poster highlights the work that is being done under the ambit of Literary Studies with 
Dr. Parichay Patra. Samya Brata’s work tries to understand the curiosity called Electronic Literature 
in the Indian context in terms of its literary and technological disparities. Do technological spaces 
engage in literary creativity? Do literary circles talk about technology? He looks into the (non?) 
existence of archives, collections and projects to further his understanding. Swarnima’s work aims 
to investigate the gendered spatial configurations/segregation and to explore the synergy between 
space, place, and literature through a geocritical analysis of real spaces and their relationship with 
textual spaces.

8. ‘Healthcare Financing in India’
Dr. Alok Ranjan and Collaborators
This poster presented the healthcare financing in India. Various studies show out-of-pocket 
expenditure as the major source of financing in India. Findings also reveal that public provisioning 
of care is more cost effective than 
purchasing it from the private sector.
9. Under Another Sky
Dr. Vidya Sarveswaran
The poster that was presented was of the 
short documentary film, Under Another 
Sky that was possible because of the seed 
grant from IIT Jodhpur and the Public 
Outreach Grant, from the Ludwig 
Maximilian University in Munich. The 
film is an uplifting story about a unique 
village in India called Piplantri which is 
in Rajsamand district in the state of Rajasthan, India. The village celebrates the birth of every girl-
child by planting 111 trees. The film is situated at the confluences of environment, ecologies, mining, 
gender, education, and self-reliance (atmanirbharta). With a desperate need to heal, nurture and 
reconnect to the Earth, the villagers under the leadership of Shyam Sudar Paliwal used the marbled 
mined land as a palimpsest to rewrite their history. The village has planted a quarter million trees 
over the last six years. The collective initiatives, community building resilience and several 
government schemes have empowered the people, especially the women, both financially and 
emotionally. This film addresses issues that are about both local and global sustainability.
10. 
‘Ecologies of Knowledge, or, The Case of the Royal Bengal(i) Tiger’
Dr. Tonisha Guin
Currently, we can no longer ignore the impact of climate violence. At the same time, we are 
increasingly aware of how only an inundation of scientific data/evidence has failed to sensitize us 
about the immediacy of climate change and its biopolitical price. This poster suggests that locating 
climate concerns like wildlife conservation within the broad networks of –psychosocial, political, 
economic, ethnic—cultural discourses is a step towards the right direction. Exercises like these can 
help destabilize the perceived rigidity of the nature/culture binary, and the ways in which it often 
alienates already vulnerable human and wildlife communities existing around more ‘natural’ spaces

like forests and waterways. As an example of this, this poster takes up the discourse on tigers as a 
part of the broader discourse on (and by) a particular community—the Bengali Bhadralok. It is a 
part of a larger project on the cultural knowledge systems around environmental conservation, and 
the key role local knowledge systems can play in this discourse. The illustrations—comical and 
otherwise—along with the presenter’s translation of a funny children’s poem by Rabindranath 
Tagore generated a lot of curiosity and questions. Senior academics and guests from outside 
Jodhpur seriously engaged with the poster’s propositions and talked about the need for 
interdisciplinary collaboration between Cultural Studies and the Sciences for projects like these.
The local and other, visiting audience—expert and laymen alike—was able to relate with the 
poster’s subject and was soon sharing analogous stories about the local wildlife and village and 
urban communities. Very vibrant participatory—often autobiographical—discussions on the 
vitality of local knowledge systems, rituals and practices, and the danger of forgetting them 
followed. There was an equal amount of interest for a space like Sunderbans because of the way in 
which it appeared like the polar opposite of the local topography, and yet generated similar 
accounts. A lot of interest in supporting and contributing to a similar project around local human-
animal habitats was expressed by the visitors. The analogies and urgency that these discussions 
highlighted was truly exceptional and humbling. It opened up a space to talk about animal-human 
relationships, as well as intercultural dialogue celebrating diversity.

11. ‘Union Budget 2023-24’
Dr. Gopakumar with Ms. Manya Khanna, Mr. 
Iltefat A. A. Jami, Mr. Raashid Y. Shah, Mr. 
Shubhi Verma, Mr. Aniket, Mr. Niharika Malti 
and Mr. Ratikant Dehury
The poster showcased key highlights from the 
Union Budget 2023-24. The analysis compared 
budget allocation for various welfare schemes 
and major expenditure heads on a year-to-year 
basis. The poster also presented details on how 
the current budget caters to various sections of
the society/economy such as the farming 
community, the industry and MSMEs, cooperatives, 
rural population, middle income earners and senior 
citizens, women and youth and so on. The presenters 
were able to connect with the audience by explaining 
how the budget will influence their life in terms of 
taxes and various other schemes.
In addition to poster presentations, Dr. Akanksha 
Choudhary delivered an Open House lecture on Real 
World Economics and talked about the various 
programs at SoLA with the audience attending the 
lecture.
GAMES
Word Puzzle
Dr. Kanak Yadav
In contemporary times, when board games 
are viewed as reminders of the past, it was 
refreshing to see a crowd fixated at a 
whiteboard featuring word puzzles. Inspired 
by New York Times Classic Spelling Bee, seven 
letters were provided from which the player 
may make as many words as possible

provided the middle-letter was used somewhere in each word.
From faculty and staff members to student 
volunteers, school kids – and their equally 
enthusiastic parents – this game was quite a 
success, pushing everyone to put on their 
thinking caps in making words and, at times, 
even inventing them. The improvisational 
element of the game added to the fun as Dr. Vidya 
Sarveswaran and Dr. Natasa Thoudam eagerly 
participated and coordinated the game. This was 
an 
innovative 
teaching-cum-learning 
game
which connected us with the wider public.
Games and Puzzles on Logical Reasoning, General Knowledge, and Language Proficiency
Dr. Tonisha Guin, Dr. Ruhi Sonal, 
Dr. Natasa Thoudam, Dr. Vidya 
Sarveswaran, with Samya Brata 
Roy, Swarnima Bannerjee, 
Krishna Singh Bhandari, Pooja 
Rawat, Komal Sharma, Jyoti and 
Prof. Chhanda Chakraborti
Different members of faculty and 
students contributed to come up 
with an engaging set of puzzles and 
games that were made keeping in 
mind participants from various age groups. They comprised of questions representing the different

disciplines taught in the School of Liberal Arts. Children and their parents actively engaged with 
them. It was an invigorating experience to be able to interact with them. The sweets distributed as 
prizes added an element of cheerful rivalry. The student volunteers interacted with the audience in 
fixed batches to ensure equal opportunity and avoid overcrowding. The games and the friendly, 
welcoming 
attitudes 
of 
the 
volunteers 
were 
deeply
appreciated by the guests in their feedback.
DECORATION AND ORGANISATION
Dr. Tonisha Guin with Dr. Kanak Yadav and All Doctoral 
Scholars
We attempted a synergy between celebrating local ethnic 
motifs and the interdisciplinary knowledge ecosystem created 
by the School. Accordingly, a set of posters curated by Dr. 
Yadav and Dr. Guin, in consultation with the doctoral students 
were printed for the corridors. The posters attempted to show 
the range of disciplines the School’s work engaged with—
Philosophy, 
Psychology, 
Sociology, 
Economics, 
English
Literary Studies, Film Studies, Media and Cultural Studies.

Along the way, the interdisciplinarity of the School’s work showcased allied disciplines like Political 
Science, History and Anthropology.
The posters were designed to evoke the interest of visitors on particular themes, like 
Existentialism, or the Art Movement of Cubism that relate to multiple disciplines at once. The 
illustrations were deliberately minimalistic to capture iconic moments and draw attention. The 
posters highlighting literary quotations and art complemented those on philosophical and critical 
theory. A lot of emphasis was given on being accessible and relatable while still focusing on 
academic concerns.
Besides, the doctoral students, especially Deepa, took the initiative to coordinate with the faculty 
members to put up selected posters highlighting the faculty’s work and individual research interest 
on their office doors. This led to quite a few questions about particular research questions and 
interest in knowing more. Some queries regarding doctoral programs were also noticed.
We sourced art made by small-scale women’s initiatives from Jodhpur city. The paintings of the 
iconic Jharokhas were deeply appreciated by both, the fraternity at SoLA and the visitors. We hope 
to support local initiatives in this way in the future. A selfie-point created by the team added to the 
sense of celebration and inclusivity that marked the hours of the Open House.
The Open House was a brilliant platform that opened up a space for engaging with our visitors, it 
also was a very encouraging display of team work and coordination. Both, the faculty members and 
the student volunteers, took great pride and initiative to make the event a success.

The constant support of the office staff, Shashank Choudhury and Udhay Kumar, was deeply 
appreciated.
Student Volunteers:
Crowd Management: Gautam Kumar, Amir Sohel, Atul Kumar Pandey, Surabhi Singh, Swarnima 
Bannerjee, Ahsanshok Kachui, Kritika Mishra
Games: Swarnima Bannerjee, Sanjay Kumar Bissoyi, Biplab Karak, Pooja Rawat, Krishna Singh 
Bhandari, Deepa, Jyoti Sharma, Minal Mehta, Divyanshu Pathak, Komal Sharma
Film Screening: Jayprakash 
Show, Bhairab Barman, 
Sanjay Kumar Bissoyi, 
Samyuktha A., Nurdini 
Tsabitul Chusna
Camerapersons: Jayprakash 
Show, Jyoti Sharma, Komal 
Sharma
Decoration: Gautam Kumar, 
Jyoti Sharma, Ashonshok 
Kachui, Jayprakash 
Show, Sanjay Kumar Bissoyi, 
Biplab Karak, Krishna Singh 
Bhandari, Surabhi Singh, 
Kritika Mishra, Atul Kumar 
Pandey, Komal 
Sharma, Samya Brata Roy, 
Ashish James, 
Deepa, Sangeeth 
M, Sibsankar Pradhan, Nisha 
Paliwal
Core 
Team 
of 
Faculty
Farhat Naz, Tonisha Guin, 
Gurujegan 
Murugesan,
Ankita Sharma, Kanak Yadav