SOURCE_PDF: 4b2263a62a59_15-Nov-2022-Talk-by-Lipika-Dey-1.pdf

SoLA Seminar Series | IIT Jodhpur
SCHOOL OF LIBERAL ARTS
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Invites you to a lecture on 
“Text Mining for Computational Social Science”
By 
Dr. Lipika Dey
Principal Scientist 
TCS Innovation Labs, New Delhi
On 
Tuesday, November 15, 2022, 6:00 pm -7:30 pm
Venue: Room No.105, Lecture Hall Building, IIT Jodhpur Campus
Recent advances in Natural Language Processing technologies have raised the hopes of automated or 
semi-automated analysis of large textual repositories. Simultaneously the open web and other 
participatory digital text repositories have emerged as new sources of information for the social scientists. 
These repositories are continuously evolving and can be considered digital footprints of the society. These 
sources are dynamic in nature and also contain valuable information about social interactions. In this 
presentation we will discuss how computer assisted analysis of large digital repositories are helping social 
scientists extract insights about people's thoughts, moods, behaviors along with inferences about 
associated social factors like demography, socio-economic background etc. Superimposed with social 
interactions, the extracted knowledge can provide further insights about the underlying social dynamics. 
A few tools, techniques and case studies will be discussed.
About the Speaker
Dr. Lipika Dey is the Chief Scientist at TCS Research, Tata Consultancy Services, 
India. She heads research in the area of Economic and Financial Intelligence. 
Her research interests are in the areas of content analytics from social media 
and News, social network analytics, predictive modeling and semantic search. 
The focus of her work is on seamless integration of social intelligence and 
business intelligence. She has been elected a Fellow of Indian National 
Academy of Engineers. She was awarded with the Distinguished Scientist 
award by TCS in 2012. Prior to joining the industry in 2007, she was a faculty 
member in the Department of Mathematics at Indian Institute of Technology, 
Delhi, from 1995 to 2006. Dr. Dey has a Ph.D. in Computer Science and 
Engineering, an M.Tech in Computer Science and Data Processing and a 5 Year 
Integrated-M.Sc in Mathematics from IIT Kharagpur. She is a founding member 
of the ACM-Women council in India. 
All are welcome.