SOURCE_PDF: 4b870dc8cedc_brocheure-of-the-program-638887974141081700.pdf

Admission to Executive M.Tech in Intelligent VLSI Systems for
Working Professionals
IIT Jodhpur invites applications for admission Part-time M. Tech. (Intelligent VLSI Systems) 
program for the Semester commencing from September 2022. The proposed Executive M. Tech 
program for Intelligent VLSI Systems of IIT Jodhpur includes state of the art semiconductor 
devices and modeling techniques, analog and digital VLSI circuits and systems, mixed signal 
circuits, testing and verification algorithms, issues with system integration for performance 
considerations, covering wide aspects of embedded and computing systems, and emerging 
applications. It will cover a wide aspect of fundamentals, design skills, hands on through 
synchronous/asynchronous/campus-immersion mode and current trends in the industry. It will lead 
the professionals to learn without a career break with classes conducted on weekends/weekdays 
evening. The education delivery methodology combines classroom and experiential learning.
Eligibility Criteria and Admission Process
Eligibility
B.Tech./B.E. (ECE/EE/CSE/EI/MSc. Physics/MSc. Electronics or equivalent) with at least 60% marks. At 
least 2 years of professional work experience with sufficient hands-on experience.
Selection Procedure
Candidates must fill an online application at https://oa.iitj.ac.in/OA_PG_ADMISSION/. Selection will be 
based on written test and/or interview and/or any other criteria deemed suitable by the admission committee. 
Prior research exposure and/or industry experience in areas related to VLSI will be considered a plus. The 
department reserves the right to set any cut off criteria for shortlisting the candidates. Mere fulfillment of 
the eligibility criteria does not guarantee that the candidate will be shortlisted, as the shortlisting criteria are 
often stricter than the eligibility criteria. Shortlisting criteria is decided after receiving the applications, and 
is aimed at limiting the number of candidates considered for evaluation.
Program Fee: Fee will be Rs 65,000/- per semester. The program is for min. 3-year (6 semesters) 
duration. Fees once paid will not be refunded, if the candidate fails to join the program.
Fees once paid will not be refunded, if the candidate fails to join the program.
Written Test Topics: Basics of programming, basic mathematics, basics of electronics, circuit theory, 
digital electronics
Key Features of the Program:
Class Schedule
Classes will be conducted in the evening (e.g. from 5 PM to 7 PM IST) or on weekends at a convenient 
time. There will be two to three lectures/labs every evening, each of duration 50 to 80 minutes. Typical 
contact time for 1 credit: 14 lectures of 50 min each.

Online Instruction
Lectures will be webcast online and students will attend in a synchronous audio-visual mode. Students can 
raise questions during the lecture. Recorded lectures and teaching material will be made available after the 
sessions. Course management and offline discussions will be enabled via widely-used tools such as Google 
classroom, Piazza and Moodle.
Contact Weeks
There will be mandatory two contact weeks in a semester. Students need to be present on campus during a 
contact week and attend lectures and discussion sessions with instructors, and give a demonstration of 
assignments. Alternatively, these contact weeks can be organized in remote locations, subject to higher 
demand.
The first contact week will align middle of the semester. The second contact week will align with the last 
week of the semester (subjected to COVID19 pandemic situation). Institute may provide hostel 
accommodation during the contact week, subject to availability.
Assessment
Grading will be based on examinations, online quizzes, theoretical assignments, etc. Institute policy will be 
followed for the examination.
Credit Requirements
Students need to earn 62 credits as per the course structure in order to qualify for the degree over a minimum 
period 
of 
3 
years. 
More 
details 
related 
to 
the 
program 
are 
available 
here:
Faculty
Instructors comprising of IITJ faculty members and industry experts.
Important Dates
Application Procedure
Applicants are requested to use the following link to fill and submit the application form online: 
https://oa.iitj.ac.in/OA_PG_ADMISSION
Applicants are required to pay the processing fee of Rs. 500 online while submitting the application form. 
The application fees is non-refundable.

Cancellation of admission
The Institute reserves the right to cancel, at any stage, the admission of a candidate admitted to a programme 
and is later found that he/she is not entitled, being unqualified or ineligible in accordance with the 
Regulations in vogue, or suspension/termination of programme. In case of cancellation/withdrawn of 
admission after registration from programme, refund of fee will not be permissible.
Contact us:
In case of any query with respect to the online application, candidates may contact: Office of Automation 
(oa_automation@iitj.ac.in) and other general queries may be directed to the office of the Department of 
Electrical Engineering at the following phone number: 0291-2801352 or email address: 
office_ee@iitj.ac.in.