SOURCE_URL: http://dilpreetkaur@iitj.ac.in/Office-of-Academics/en/M.Sc.-in-Physics

Introduction Physics is one of the oldest disciplines of Science dealing with the development of a number of theories that attempt to explain the origin of the Universe and also various forces that exist in nature. Further, the genesis of most of the Engineering Disciplines is based on various principles and theories of physics. Hence, the subject of physics, on one side deals with the development of fundamental theories towards revealing various processes and forces in the nature and on the other hand, it seamlessly interfaces with almost all disciplines of engineering wherein outcome of the research in physics can be translated to useful technologies and products thereby immensely contributing to the wellbeing of the mankind. Objective of the Programme The major objective of the programme is to bring out professionals having knowledge of basic laws of nature together with strong fundamentals in the core area of physics viz. Classical Mechanics, Quantum Mechanics, Condensed Matter Physics, Electromagnetism, Computational Physics, Statistical Physics, Electronics, Atomic and Nuclear Physics and advanced level topics such as Quantum Information Processing, Quantum Computing, High Energy Physics, Astrophysics, Nanotechnology, Nonlinear Optics, etc. Further objective of the program is to inculcate certain specific enabling skill sets to prepare the students to take up challenges in any one or more functional domains viz. (i) Academics; (ii) Basic and Applied Research; (iii) Research & Development; (iv) Engineering & Technology and (v) Industry. Expected Graduate Attributes In depth understanding of the fundamental concepts of classical as well as quantum physics. Ability to perform the experiments and analyze the experimental data based on acquired knowledge in the domains of electronics, atomic physics, nuclear physics, condensed matter physics and optics. Skills to demonstrate basic principles of physics by using simple experimental tools. Understanding of basic tools of computational physics and their application in various domains of physics. Ability to apply the acquired basic knowledge to advanced level topics of physics like Quantum Information Theory, Quantum Computing, Nanomaterials, Nonlinear Optics, Advanced Functional Materials, etc. Ability to implement the theoretical concepts to decipher the complex experimental data obtained from large multisource observations. Ability to apply acquired knowledge to develop advanced functional materials as well as to design and fabricate device structures for various applications. Ability to apply the acquired experimental skills for the characterization and evaluation of functional materials and devices such as sensors, solar cells, optical components, etc. Ability to make effective oral and written technical communication. Appreciation and adherence to norms of professional ethics. Learning Outcomes Knowledge and deep understanding of principles of basic and applied physics. Subject knowledge to pursue higher studies in the areas of High Energy Physics, Astrophysics, Quantum Information Processing, Nanotechnology, Nonlinear Optics, Fibre Optics, etc. Knowledge of fabrication and characterization of devices such as solar cells, gas sensor, energy storage, magnetic data storage, etc. Skills in certain experimental techniques for characterization of materials for their structural, morphological, surface topology, electrical, magnetic, dielectric and optical properties. Knowledge and skills to use various vacuum based techniques for development of thin film based materials and structures. Technical knowledge and skills to understand and appreciate interdisciplinary research topics. Skills in computational physics for wide range of applications ranging from the visualization of physical theories and process, design of functional materials, simulation and modeling of optical processes, etc. Written and Oral technical communication skills.
Physics is one of the oldest disciplines of Science dealing with the development of a number of theories that attempt to explain the origin of the Universe and also various forces that exist in nature. Further, the genesis of most of the Engineering Disciplines is based on various principles and theories of physics. Hence, the subject of physics, on one side deals with the development of fundamental theories towards revealing various processes and forces in the nature and on the other hand, it seamlessly interfaces with almost all disciplines of engineering wherein outcome of the research in physics can be translated to useful technologies and products thereby immensely contributing to the wellbeing of the mankind.
Objective of the Programme
The major objective of the programme is to bring out professionals having knowledge of basic laws of nature together with strong fundamentals in the core area of physics viz. Classical Mechanics, Quantum Mechanics, Condensed Matter Physics, Electromagnetism, Computational Physics, Statistical Physics, Electronics, Atomic and Nuclear Physics and advanced level topics such as Quantum Information Processing, Quantum Computing, High Energy Physics, Astrophysics, Nanotechnology, Nonlinear Optics, etc. Further objective of the program is to inculcate certain specific enabling skill sets to prepare the students to take up challenges in any one or more functional domains viz. (i) Academics; (ii) Basic and Applied Research; (iii) Research & Development; (iv) Engineering & Technology and (v) Industry.
Expected Graduate Attributes
In depth understanding of the fundamental concepts of classical as well as quantum physics.
Ability to perform the experiments and analyze the experimental data based on acquired knowledge in the domains of electronics, atomic physics, nuclear physics, condensed matter physics and optics.
Skills to demonstrate basic principles of physics by using simple experimental tools.
Understanding of basic tools of computational physics and their application in various domains of physics.
Ability to apply the acquired basic knowledge to advanced level topics of physics like Quantum Information Theory, Quantum Computing, Nanomaterials, Nonlinear Optics, Advanced Functional Materials, etc.
Ability to implement the theoretical concepts to decipher the complex experimental data obtained from large multisource observations.
Ability to apply acquired knowledge to develop advanced functional materials as well as to design and fabricate device structures for various applications.
Ability to apply the acquired experimental skills for the characterization and evaluation of functional materials and devices such as sensors, solar cells, optical components, etc.
Ability to make effective oral and written technical communication.
Appreciation and adherence to norms of professional ethics.
Knowledge and deep understanding of principles of basic and applied physics.
Subject knowledge to pursue higher studies in the areas of High Energy Physics, Astrophysics, Quantum Information Processing, Nanotechnology, Nonlinear Optics, Fibre Optics, etc.
Knowledge of fabrication and characterization of devices such as solar cells, gas sensor, energy storage, magnetic data storage, etc.
Skills in certain experimental techniques for characterization of materials for their structural, morphological, surface topology, electrical, magnetic, dielectric and optical properties.
Knowledge and skills to use various vacuum based techniques for development of thin film based materials and structures.
Technical knowledge and skills to understand and appreciate interdisciplinary research topics.
Skills in computational physics for wide range of applications ranging from the visualization of physical theories and process, design of functional materials, simulation and modeling of optical processes, etc.
Written and Oral technical communication skills.
Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee
Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee
Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee
Institute Repository
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM
Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM
Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM
###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!