SOURCE_PDF: 4cfe790c9802_-Reporting-Details-cps-638822076037883666.pdf

Date Reporting Time Venue
Written test
8th May 2025 9.00 am Room Number EE 115, Department of Electrical
Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
Date Reporting Time Venue
Interview
8th May 2025 2 pm Room Number EE 104, Department of Electrical
Engineering,, IIT Jodhpur
Department Of Electrical Engineering 
Indian Institute of Tehnology Jodhpur
NH65, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur 342037, INDIA
Reporting Details for Written Test and/or Interview
A. Self-Sponsored and Full-time Sponsored, Part-time (online) Part-time and Part-time (Project-
sponsored) Applicants: All the candidates shortlisted for written test for M.Tech. admission in Cyber-Physical 
Systems are required to appear the written test as per following schedule:
Note: The applicants qualifying the written test will be called for an interview on 9th May, 2025. The details will 
be shared on 8th of May, 2025. 
 
B. Full-Time regular without assistantship Applicants: All the candidates shortlisted for interview for 
M.Tech. admission in Cyber-Physical Systems are suggested to appear the interview as per following schedule:
Please note the following:
1. You must report on time for the written test and/or interview. 
2. No request will be entertained to change the date for the written test and/or interview. 
3. You are advised to ensure that you fulfil the minimum eligibility criteria and must carry the following at the
time of Written test and/or interview:
a. a copy of his/her application (duly-signed) 
b. a passport size photograph 
c. 
self-attested photocopies of his/her mark-sheets, degree certificates (if available)
d. a valid GATE, NET, CSIR, UGC, NBHM or equivalent score card. 
e. The candidates belonging to reserved categories must submit a self-attested copy of the certificate. 
f. 
The candidates belonging to OBC-NCL/SC/ST category must submit a self-attested copy of the valid 
caste certificate.
g. persons with disability have to bring necessary certificates for consideration. 
h. applicants must carry a valid ID proof (Adhar card or Voter card)
4. The Institute reserves the right to withdraw the admission in case a candidate DOES NOT fulfil minimum
qualification/required percentage of marks in the qualifying examination or supplies any false information.
5. Please note that this call is merely a request for a written test and/or interview and in any way does not
guarantee admission for M.Tech. Program at IIT Jodhpu.