SOURCE_URL: https://www.iitj.ac.in/schools/en/faq-1

Q. When will the application process for MBA admissions begin? Ans. The application process will commence online from the day following the declaration of
the CAT results. Please refer to the link . Q. What is the minimum qualification required to apply for the MBA program? Ans. Please refer to the link . Q. How should I apply to the MBA program—online or by regular mail? Ans. Applications must be submitted online only. Please refer to the link . Q. How will my application for the MBA program be evaluated? Ans. Please refer to the link . Q. Is my CAT score the only or the most important criterion for my candidature for the
MBA program? Ans. While the CAT scores are an important criterion for shortlisting, it is not the sole
determinant of candidature. Other factors such as performance in the personal interview, full-
time work experience, and gender diversity are also considered and carry weightage. Q. What is the application fee for the MBA program? Ans. Please refer to the link . Q. Is work experience mandatory for the MBA program? Ans. No, work experience is not mandatory. However, full-time work experience carries
weightage in the selection process. Q. Is the admission process different for the MBA and MBA–Technology degrees? Ans. There is no separate admission process for the two degree streams. Once admitted to
the program, students may choose either the MBA or MBA–Technology degree after
completing the first year, provided they fulfil the prescribed program requirements. Q. What constitutes valid work experience? Ans. Please refer to the link . Q. Are hostel facilities available? What is the occupancy of the hostel rooms? Ans. Yes, hostel facilities are available. All MBA students are required to reside on campus.
Suitable accommodation is provided to each student, subject to availability. Q. What is the course structure of the MBA and MBA–Technology programs? Ans. Please refer to the link . Q. What is the international dual degree program? Ans. Please refer to the link . Q. Are the programs offered by foreign partner institutions under the international
dual degree program conducted on campus? Ans. Yes. Please refer to the link . Q. Are there additional expenses to be borne by a student opting for the international
dual degree program? Ans. Students opting for the international dual degree program in the second year are
required to pay the day-scholar fees at IIT Jodhpur, along with any applicable fees at the

partner institution. The components of the semester fee are subject to change from time to
time. Q. Will a student opting for the international dual degree be eligible for international
placements? Will the foreign partner institution assist with placements? Ans. Yes, students opting for the international dual degree are eligible to participate in the
placement process of the foreign partner institution, subject to the rules and regulations of
the partner institution and the laws of the respective country. IIT Jodhpur does not impose
any restrictions in this regard. Q. Is a student opting for the international dual degree program eligible to participate
in campus placements at IIT Jodhpur? Ans. Yes, subject to the rules and conditions specified by the recruiter(s). Q. Is there any upper limit on the number of students going abroad for the
international dual degree program in a year? Ans. There is no fixed upper limit. However, the number may vary from year to year, and
students are selected primarily based on academic performance at SME and their past
academic record. Q. As part of the international dual degree program, can a student complete the
specialised master’s program at IIT Jodhpur instead of going abroad? Ans. No. The specialised master’s programs offered by partner institutions are regular on-
campus degree programs and require students to reside in the country where the partner
institution is located. Q. Can I add or update information after submitting my application? Ans. No. Once the application has been submitted, no changes can be made. Q. Are international students eligible to apply for the MBA program? Ans. Yes. Please refer to the link .
Q. When will the application process for MBA admissions begin?
Ans. The application process will commence online from the day following the declaration of
the CAT results. Please refer to the link .
Q. What is the minimum qualification required to apply for the MBA program?
Ans. Please refer to the link .
Q. How should I apply to the MBA program—online or by regular mail?
Ans. Applications must be submitted online only. Please refer to the link .
Q. How will my application for the MBA program be evaluated?
Ans. Please refer to the link .
Q. Is my CAT score the only or the most important criterion for my candidature for the
MBA program?
Ans. While the CAT scores are an important criterion for shortlisting, it is not the sole
determinant of candidature. Other factors such as performance in the personal interview, full-
time work experience, and gender diversity are also considered and carry weightage.
Q. What is the application fee for the MBA program?
Ans. Please refer to the link .
Q. Is work experience mandatory for the MBA program?
Ans. No, work experience is not mandatory. However, full-time work experience carries
weightage in the selection process.
Q. Is the admission process different for the MBA and MBA–Technology degrees?
Ans. There is no separate admission process for the two degree streams. Once admitted to
the program, students may choose either the MBA or MBA–Technology degree after
completing the first year, provided they fulfil the prescribed program requirements.
Q. What constitutes valid work experience?
Ans. Please refer to the link .
Q. Are hostel facilities available? What is the occupancy of the hostel rooms?
Ans. Yes, hostel facilities are available. All MBA students are required to reside on campus.
Suitable accommodation is provided to each student, subject to availability.
Q. What is the course structure of the MBA and MBA–Technology programs?
Ans. Please refer to the link .
Q. What is the international dual degree program?
Ans. Please refer to the link .
Q. Are the programs offered by foreign partner institutions under the international
dual degree program conducted on campus?
Ans. Yes. Please refer to the link .
Q. Are there additional expenses to be borne by a student opting for the international
dual degree program?
Ans. Students opting for the international dual degree program in the second year are
required to pay the day-scholar fees at IIT Jodhpur, along with any applicable fees at the

partner institution. The components of the semester fee are subject to change from time to
time.
Q. Will a student opting for the international dual degree be eligible for international
placements? Will the foreign partner institution assist with placements?
Ans. Yes, students opting for the international dual degree are eligible to participate in the
placement process of the foreign partner institution, subject to the rules and regulations of
the partner institution and the laws of the respective country. IIT Jodhpur does not impose
any restrictions in this regard.
Q. Is a student opting for the international dual degree program eligible to participate
in campus placements at IIT Jodhpur?
Ans. Yes, subject to the rules and conditions specified by the recruiter(s).
Q. Is there any upper limit on the number of students going abroad for the
international dual degree program in a year?
Ans. There is no fixed upper limit. However, the number may vary from year to year, and
students are selected primarily based on academic performance at SME and their past
academic record.
Q. As part of the international dual degree program, can a student complete the
specialised master’s program at IIT Jodhpur instead of going abroad?
Ans. No. The specialised master’s programs offered by partner institutions are regular on-
campus degree programs and require students to reside in the country where the partner
institution is located.
Q. Can I add or update information after submitting my application?
Ans. No. Once the application has been submitted, no changes can be made.
Q. Are international students eligible to apply for the MBA program?
Ans. Yes. Please refer to the link .
Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee
Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee
Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee
Institute Repository
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 11 Mar 2026 - 09:21 PM
Last Updated : 11 Mar 2026 - 09:21 PM
Last Updated : 11 Mar 2026 - 09:21 PM
###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!