SOURCE_PDF: 4dce4c79e6b2_Insights-SoLA-Newletter-3.pdf

MESSAGE
TEAM SOLA 
ACHIEVEMENTS
EVENTS
CONTACT
VOLUME 02
INSIGHTS
IIT Jodhpur stands as a bastion of
academic brilliance, heralding innovation
and 
fostering 
intellectual 
expertise.
Renowned 
for 
its 
commitment 
to
excellence, the institute's distinguished
faculty 
and 
state-of-the-art 
facilities
propel 
pioneering 
research 
across
diverse 
disciplines. 
Its 
trajectory
promises an even brighter future with
cutting-edge 
research, 
transformative
education, 
and 
a 
commitment 
to
pushing the boundaries of human
knowledge.
School of Liberal Arts at IIT Jodhpur
pioneers an interdisciplinary approach,
blending social sciences, humanities, and
arts. With a mission to cultivate versatile
minds, 
it 
nurtures 
critical 
thinking,
creativity, and empathy shaping future
leaders adept at navigating complexities
while fostering innovation and societal
enrichment.
NEWSLETTER
SCHOOL OF LIBERAL
ARTS, IIT JODHPUR
"WHERE EQUATIONS DANCE WITH POETRY, AND LOGIC HARMONIZES
WITH ART, AT THE SCHOOL OF LIBERAL ARTS MINDS UNFOLD IN
KALEIDOSCOPIC BRILLIANCE."
ISSUE NO.01
-Aryamaan Mohapatra
DECEMBER 2023

Message from the Head
SoLA Seminar Series
SoLA: Event Focus
New Team Members
Faculty Achievements
Student Achievements
XR Design Programme
Contact Us
"Insights," the biannual newsletter of
the School of Liberal Arts, IIT
Jodhpur, provides a glimpse into the 
academic activities, social
gatherings, accomplishments and
community engagements of the
School. The following pages will walk
you through the scholarly triumphs
of faculty and students, their
research, artistic endeavors, and
noteworthy accolades. Additionally,
it warmly welcomes the new team
members, fostering a sense of
belonging within the institution.
With an amalgamation of diverse
perspectives and achievements,
"Insights" serves as a beacon of
inspiration, uniting the community in
its pursuit of knowledge, creativity,
and academic excellence.
WHAT’S INSIDE THIS EDITION OF INSIGHTS?
MESSAGE
TEAM SOLA 
ACHIEVEMENTS
EVENTS
CONTACT
Editorial Team
Dr. Sumana Som
Dr. Sreedevi D 
Aryamaan Mohapatra
Pragya Sachdeva
Sumit K Singh
Achyut N Sapkal

CONTACT
MESSAGE FROM THE HEAD
MESSAGE
TEAM SOLA 
ACHIEVEMENTS
EVENTS
CONTACT
As we step in for the winter break and the
festive season, I welcome you all to the third
issue of SoLA’s Newsletter. We have wonderful
news and information for you to read about in
this issue. To start with, I want to introduce
the new editorial team for the newsletter, we
have: Dr. Sumana Som, Dr. Sreedevi D, and
student members- Aryamaan Mohapatra,
Pragya Sachdeva , Sumit K Singh and Achyut N
Sapkal.
I would also like to Thank, the outgoing
Editorial 
Team: 
Dr. 
Tonisha 
Guin, 
Dr.
Gurujegan Murugesan, Student members -
Manya Khanna, Niharika Maiti, Aniket Sachan,
Shubhi Verma, for their efforts in making the
first two issues incredible. You are so
appreciated!
Dr. FARHAT NAZ
Associate Professor of Sociology
Head, School of Liberal Arts
FARHAT NAZ
Deeper in this issue, you will see, SoLA welcomed new faculty members and also launched
Masters in Design. I am also delighted to share that my colleagues and students at SoLA have
contributed enormously for keeping SoLA academic culture vibrant, by doing excellent work in
their respective domains and bringing in laurels through publications, grants, awards, conference
presentations and participation.
At SoLA, we welcomed the second batch of M.Sc. CSS and new PhD students in August and had an
induction programme with them. We also had a wonderful Teachers’ Day with Fun-filled activities,
and also as part of the Board of Departmental Society activities, we had engaging students and
faculty interaction through ‘Chai Pe Charcha’ and ‘Antakshari’.
Team SoLA continues to strive hard for academic excellence in the IIT ecosystem. And we at SoLA,
look forward to working with you all and learning more about your work over the next few years.
Thank you so very much!

This year’s seminar series started with Sarnath Banerjee’s lecture discussion on “Comics and the Language of
Exclusion” on 20th September 2023.
Sarnath Banerjee
Prof. Venkatesh Rajamanickam delivered a lecture on "Data Narratives" on 10th October 2023.
Prof. Venkatesh Rajamanickam
CONTACT
MESSAGE
TEAM SOLA 
ACHIEVEMENTS
EVENTS
CONTACT
Seminar Series
Dr. Deepkumar Varma
The event dived deep into the world of data analytics within the e-
commerce sector, focusing on Amazon's strategies and practices. The
speaker addressed a variety of questions, ranging from the practical
applications of data analytics to the potential impact on the future of e-
commerce. The event concluded with a Q&A session, allowing attendees to
interact with Dr. Varma.
Dr. Deepkumar Varma delivered an online lecture on ‘Data Driven Decision
Making in Ecommerce- Amazon’, on 22nd November 2023.

On 27th July 2023, the School of Liberal Arts was filled with excitement as it warmly received its newest members. A
special orientation program was organised, aimed at helping these fresh faces settle into their new academic journey.
The day was buzzing with activity, offering these students a chance to meet and chat with the faculty members. It was
an incredible opportunity for everyone to get to know each other better and lay the foundation for a supportive and
engaging learning environment. The event was a wonderful way to kick-start their time at the School of Liberal Arts.
ORIENTATION
Every year Teachers' Day is celebrated at the School of Liberal Arts as a joyful occasion of togetherness. This year’s
celebration involved lively performances, special activities, and heartfelt gestures aimed at thanking the teachers for
their dedication and guidance. Students prepared songs, dances, skits and made the event lively. It was a wonderful
opportunity for everyone to show their love and appreciation, making the teachers feel cherished and valued for their
hard work.
Teachers’ Day Celebration
CONTACT
MESSAGE
TEAM SOLA 
ACHIEVEMENTS
EVENTS
CONTACT
SoLA: Event Focus

The Board of Departmental Society (BDS) at the School of Liberal Arts orchestrated a memorable evening on 9th 
November 2023, with the dual celebration featuring Antakshari Extravaganza and Chai Pe Charcha events. The
vibrant SoLA Courtyard transformed into a hub of musical harmony and engaging conversations.
Antakshari Extravaganza and Chai Pe Charcha:
Student to Teacher Edition
CONTACT
MESSAGE
TEAM SOLA 
ACHIEVEMENTS
EVENTS
CONTACT
SoLA: Event Focus
Hybrid Conference on “Climate Change: A Socio-
Geological Perspective”
School of Liberal Arts organised DAAD sponsored International Conference on Climate Change : A Socio- Geological
Perspective, 11-12 October, 2023 in collaboration with IIT Kanpur. Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur
made the inaugural address and Dr. Farhat Naz (IIT Jodhpur), Dr Amar Agarwal, DAAD India Research Ambassador,
(IIT Kanpur) made the opening remarks. Keynote speakers for the two day conference included Prof. Alexander
Ferkete (Institute of Rescue Engineering and Civil Protection, Cologne University of Applied Sciences), Dr. Dhruv Sen
Singh (University of Lucknow), Dr. Aditi Mukherji (Director, CGIAR’s Global Climate Change Impact Platform), Dr. K. J.
George (Associate Professor, SoLA), Dr. Brindha Karthikeyan (Freie University, Berlin, Germany). There were
engaging sessions on Climate Change, Policy, Gender, and Geology. The conference concluded with a session on
DAAD by Dr. Amar Agarwal and Dr. Farhat Naz.

CONTACT
MESSAGE
TEAM SOLA 
ACHIEVEMENTS
EVENTS
CONTACT
SoLA: Event Focus
Art and History Study Outing with Prof. Deepak John
Matthew to Mehrangarh Fort
Prof. Deepak John Matthew and Dr. Sumana Som took the Masters in Design students from the School of Liberal Arts to
Mehrangarh Fort, guiding them through a fascinating exploration of the Fort's engineering and design. His insightful
teachings on art, history, and design principles, elucidated the innovative approaches of past engineers and designers.
Screening of 1956, Central Travancore and
Santhoshathinte Onnam Rahasyam
Film Club at the School of Liberal Arts arranged a screening of the two films "1956, Central Travancore" and "Santhoshathinte
Onnam Rahasyam" followed by an interactive session with the filmmaker Mr. Don Palathara, moderated by Dr. Parichay
Patra on 23rd and 24th November, 2023.
PC: Prof. Deepak John Matthew

Ayla Joncheere
Associate Professor Bhaswati Sarma
Professor of practice Gaurav Vaidya
Assistant Professor
Kanak Yadav
Assistant professor Nimish Vohra
Associate Professor Pranjal Pratim Borah
Young Faculty Associate
Rajdeep Konar
Assistant Professor Saurabh Maheswari
Assistant Professor Sherin Sabu
Assistant Professor
Shimmila Bhoumik
Young Faculty Associate Sumana Som
Assistant Professor Sunil Lohar
Assistant Professor
MESSAGE
TEAM SOLA
ACHIEVEMENTS
EVENTS
CONTACT
New Team Members

Anupama Mohan
Rev. of The Story of Two Women Named Kalyani and
Dakshayani by R. Rajasree (Trans. by Devika J.)The Book
Review. 2023. Vol. 47. Issue 9.
Novel Where Mayflies Live Forever was longlisted to the
Best Fiction Prize 2023 at Tata Lit Fest and Atta Galata
Bangalore Lit Fest, and JCB Prize 2023.
Narayanan, V.H. “Epistemic Justice and Experiential Self”
in Mind and Society Vol.22,
2023.https://doi.org/10.1007/s11299-023-00297.
Presented a paper on “Self, Metaphor and Well Being in
the 27th Annual Conference of the Philosophy and
Religion Society of Thailand at International Buddhist
College, Mahachulalongkornrajavidyalaya University, 27-
28 October 2023.
Hari Narayanan V
Bhaswati Sarma
“Exploring the Musical Tapestry: A Comparative
Analysis of Borgeet and Dhrupad". International
Journal of Research and Analytical Reviews, An
International Peer-reviewed Journal, E- ISSN: 2348-
1269, P- ISSN: 2349-5138.
Kurup, U., Poojari, A., and Gopakumar. K. U. “To Regulate
or Strangulate? An ethics-based Framework for NBFC
Regulation.” Economic and Political Weekly, Vol 58, no 30,
2023, pp.13-17.
Gopakumar K U
Ankita Sharma
Saikia, P. and Sharma, A. Wise Negotiation: A New
Approach 
to 
Negotiation. 
23rd 
International
Conference on Group Decision and Negotiation,
Conference Proceeding, 2023.
Chakraborti, C., Chaudhuri, M., Nagar, R., Natwaria,
M., Das, D., Menon. N., & Benhamou, Y. Digital Twin:
Negotiating Identity and Translocated Heritage in
the Global Age. ICSSR under Joint Indo-Swiss CFP,
July 2023.
Invited Talk:
Plenary talk on at National seminar on ‘Psychology
and 
society 
today: 
Issues, 
challenges 
and
intervention’ organized by Dept. of Psychology, MG
Kashi 
Vidyapith 
sponsored 
by 
Dept. 
Higher
Education, Govt. of UP
Invited talk in First Year Induction and Orientation
Programme, MBM University, September 2023
Expert session during Online FDP on Pedagogy and
Technology-enabled Learning, IIT Jodhpur, 19-23 July
2023.
Alok Ranjan
Ranjan, A., Thiagarajan, S. & Garg, S. Measurement of
unmet healthcare needs to assess progress on universal
health coverage - exploring a novel approach based on
household surveys. BMC Health Serv Res 23, 525 (2023).
https://doi.org/10.1186/s12913-023-09542-0
(International Journal Paper).
Ranjan, A., Crasta, J.E. Progress towards universal health
coverage in the context of mental disorders in India:
evidence from national sample survey data. Int J Ment
Health 
Syst 
17, 
27 
(2023).
https://doi.org/10.1186/s13033-023-00595-6
(International Journal Paper).
Sharma, Isha, Atul Pandey, Anindita Dey, Alok Ranjan.
2023. Health insurance and non-communicable diseases
for elderly people in India. The 6th International
Conference 
on 
Public 
Policy 
(ICPP6). 
Toronto
Metropolitan 
University, 
Canada.
https://www.ippapublicpolicy.org/file/paper/6481244186
758.pdf (International Conference Paper).
Sharma, Isha, Atul Pandey, Anindita Dey, Alok Ranjan.
2023. Health insurance and non-communicable diseases
for elderly people in India. The 6th International
Conference 
on 
Public 
Policy 
(ICPP6). 
Toronto
Metropolitan 
University, 
Canada.
https://www.ippapublicpolicy.org/file/paper/6481244186
758.pdf (International Conference Paper)
MESSAGE
TEAM SOLA 
ACHIEVEMENTS
EVENTS
CONTACT
FACULTY ACHIEVEMENTS

MESSAGE
TEAM SOLA 
EVENTS
CONTACT
FACULTY ACHIEVEMENTS
ACHIEVEMENTS
Farhat Naz
Conference Organised
Organized the DAAD International conference on ‘Climate Change a Socio-Geological Perspective’ in collaboration
with IIT Kanpur on 11-12 Oct 2023 at SoLA, IITJ.
Grants
Awarded a Grant of USD 10,000 from the International Society for Third-Sector Research, Baltimore, US, 2023.
Farhat Naz, Associate Professor and Head, SoLA, won the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) international
workshop grant on Climate Change, in June 2023.
Conference Presentations/Invited Presentations
Presented a paper titled — ‘Traditional Water Wisdom and Water Management: A Viewpoint from Thar Desert,
Rajasthan, India’ at the XX ISA (International Sociological Association) World Congress of Sociology, held in Melbourne,
Australia, 29 June 2023
Presented a paper ‘Water Wisdom for Development: Lessons from Thar Desert Communities’ in the panel
Governance, Development, and Informality: Social Practices and Everyday Knowledge in the Global South, at the 19th
IUAES- WAU (International Union of Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences and World Anthropological Union),
World Anthropology Congress 2023 held at the University of Delhi, India, 17 Oct 2023.
Invited Talk
Invited speaker at the 19th IUAES-WAU World Anthropology Congress Lecture Series - Dynamics of Water: Through
the Lens of Governance, World Anthropology Congress Pre-event, New Delhi, 23 May 2023. 
Chaired the session ‘Bringing nature in: Human-wildlife interactions’ at XX ISA (International Sociological
Association)World Congress of Sociology, held in Melbourne, Australia, 30 June 2023.
Teaching Climate Change Course in an Engineering Institute' in the session on Teaching 'The Sociology of Climate
Change' Across The Sociology Curriculum at the XX ISA (International Sociological Association) World Congress of
Sociology, held in Melbourne, Australia, 29 June 2023.
Chaired a panel session on CoA_S2 'Critique of Anthropology Panel for Young Anthropologists' at the 19th IUAES-
WAU World Anthropology Congress 2023, Marginalities, Uncertainties, and World Anthropologies: Enlivening Past and
Envisioning Future, held at University of Delhi, India, 17 Oct. 2023.
Invited Speaker at the ‘Public Sociology and Scholarly Communication’, Pre-event of XX ISA (International Sociological
Association) World Congress of Sociology, held in Melbourne, Australia, 25 June 2023.
Gaurav Vaidya
Vaidya, G., Kalita, P.C. “Developing an Ideation Method
for Emotive Form Design of Products”. In: Chakrabarti,
A., Singh, V. (eds) Design in the Era of Industry 4.0, Volume
3. 
ICORD 
2023. 
Smart 
Innovation, 
Systems 
and
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-99-0428-0_30.
Vaidya, G., Kalita, P.C. “A Framework for the Design of
Smart Wearable Devices Using Emotional Design
Approach”. In: Chakrabarti, A., Singh, V. (eds) Design in
the Era of Industry 4.0, Volume 3. ICORD 2023. Smart
Innovation, Systems and Technologies, vol 346. Springer,
Singapore. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-99-0428-
Kanak Yadav
Publication: 
Published a critical biography on Indian English writer Arun
Joshi for the website Indian Writing in English Online,
University 
of 
Hyderabad, 
30 
October2023.
Natasa Thoudam
Presented a paper titled “The Facebook Series
'Library of Manipur' by Monica Ingudam (under the
Account 
Name 
of 
MonicaIngudam's
Findingthevoices): A Contemporary Rendition of the
Meitei Wari Leeba (Oral Storytelling) Tradition as E-
lit”— in hybrid mode (online) at the Electronic
Literature 
Organization 
2023 
International
Conference and Media Arts Show titled “Overcoming
Divides: Electronic Literature and Social Change”
held in Coimbra, Portugal, 12 - 15 July, 2023.
Workshop and others:
Organised a closed workshop at the University of
Lille, Lille, France, to present the first draft of a
chapter from the book project on comics for the IIT
Jodhpur Institute Seed Grant project (online).
Chaired 
a 
session: 
“What 
Is/Are 
the 
Digital
Humanities?”/”Introductions to DH/Introduction to
DHs”—first session of an international faculty
development program titled “Introduction to Digital
Humanities” organized by IIT Jodhpur, Jodhpur, India,
and Scottish Church College, Kolkata, India, 19
August- 15 September 2023 (online)
Organised the International DH Lecture/Seminar
Series on Editing and Publishing from September
2023 to November 2023.

MESSAGE
TEAM SOLA 
EVENTS
CONTACT
FACULTY ACHIEVEMENTS
Parichay Patra
Published a co-edited volume Frontiers of South Asian
Culture: Nation, Trans-Nation and Beyond, Routledge 2023.
Shortlisted for the British Association of Film, Television,
and Screen Studies (BAFTSS) 2023 publication award in
the best-edited collection category for the co-edited book
Sine ni Lav Diaz: A Long Take on the Filipino Auteur,
Intellect, 2021.
Invited Talk:
Spoke on “Mrinal Sen and Marginal Political Cinema in
the Global South” on at the 'The Guerrilla Fighter: Mrinal
Sen and the Legacies of Radical Cinema' conference,
University of Chicago, USA, November 18, 2023.
Talk on “Mani Kaul's Mati Manas” delivered at the South
Asian cinema program, Sinema Transtopia, Berlin, June
15, 2023.
Pranjal Borah
Publication: 
Borah, Pranjal P., and Sorathia, Babulal K. “Investigating
user Performance and Preference for two Magnitude levels
of Size and Angle of Bend on a Smartphone-sized Flexible
Device”. Behaviour & Information Technology, 2023.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1080/0144929X.2023.2245062.
Prasenjeet Tribhuvan
Tribhuvan, P. “Making of a trangressive object: The case
of Cannabis in the Himalayas”, in Reconceptualizing
Material culture in the Tricontinent: When Objects Write
Back, ed. Koshy, M. and George, R., Cambridge Scholars
Publishers (London), 2023, pp 165-182.
Presented paper titled "Community Policing in India and
future of Aritificial Intelligence" with Prof. Ankita Sharma
and Jyoti Sharma, PhD scholar, SoLAWAPOR (World
Association of Public opinion research) conference,
Salzburg, Austria Sep 19-23, 2023.
Science Technology and Innovation Hub, IIT Jodhpur, 
Karwar, Block, Jodhpur, District, Rajasthan, (Co-PI).
Invited Talk:
MBM College of Engineering, Jodhpur plenary talk during
induction on "How engineers can become social scientist
for a better future".
Philip, R. ‘The science in the search’: The construction of
India’s National Science Talent Search Programme
(1963-1976)’ at the ‘Two Centuries of Education Policies
in India: 1823- 2023’ Conference, organized by Zakir
Hussein Center for Educational Studies (ZHCES), JNU
and 
Institute 
of 
Educational 
Studies, 
Humboldt
University, July 31- August 1, 2023. 
Philip, R. 'Play, Pleasure and Parental Aspirations in an
English Pre-school Book Club in Russia' at the 11th
European Conference on Education organized by IAFOR,
the University College of London, and SOAS, July 17,
2023.
Invited Talk:
‘Technology and Vocation in the Information Age: A
Sociological Perspective, Department of Computer
Science and Humanities Webinar, IIIT Kottayam, 2 June
2023.
Rachel Philip
Sunil Lohar
Presented a paper, "Raghurajpur; A Living Museum of
Art, Culture, and Beliefs", at an International Conference
on 
Museum 
Spaces 
as 
People's 
Histories 
and
Community Voices, Organised by the Centre for
Museology and Conservation & Department of History
and Indian Culture, University of Rajasthan, Jaipur, 2023.
ACHIEVEMENTS
Suman Dhaka
Mishra, B., Pradhan, J., and Dhaka, S. “Identifying the
Impact 
of 
Social 
Isolation 
and 
Loneliness 
on
Psychological Well-being among the Elderly in old-age
Homes of India: the Mediating Role of Gender, Marital
Status, and Education. BMC geriatrics,2023,23(1),684.
https://link.springer.com/article/10.1186/s12877-023-
04384-1. 
Mishra. B and Dhaka. S. “Effect of Loneliness on Mental
Health and Cognition: A Study on Middle-Aged and Older
Adults”, 
International 
Social 
Science 
Journal, 
2023
Awarded International Mobility grant, 2023 from IIT
Jodhpur to work on project Multi-Model Exploration of
Neuroplastic and Oscillatory Alteration related to
Emotion Regulation a joint collaborative project at
University of Pennsylvania.
Presented a paper on "Differential Effect of Sleep and
Sleep Deprivation on the Behavioral and Neural Pattern
of Risky Decision Making" in 11th IBRO World Congress
of Neuroscience at Granada, Spain between 9-13
September 2023.

MESSAGE
TEAM SOLA 
EVENTS
CONTACT
FACULTY ACHIEVEMENTS
ACHIEVEMENTS
Tonisha Guin
International Conference :
Presented the paper titled,“ Decolonising Gender through Feline Femininity ‒ Reading ’Shashti, the Benefactress’ as
a Colonial Queer-Feminist Critique” at the International Conference, The Cat’s Pyjamas: Cats in Culture and Society.
at the University of London, 25-26 May, 2023.
Chaired the session titled “ Transformative Justice: Perspectives of Visibility and Resilience” in the international
conference on “Race and Environmental Justice in the Era of COVID-19: Rethinking ‘Social Distancing’” conducted as a
part of project, Air and Environmental Health in the (Post-)Covid-19 World.
Presented the paper “Epistemic Reconstitution and Border Dwelling in Jamlo Walks: An Illustrated Book about Life
During Lockdown” conducted by the University of Vienna, Austria, July 13-14, 2023.
Plenary Presentation titled, “Studying Gender in the Popular: Ursula K. Le Guis Speculative Fiction as a Study of
Resisting Stereotypes at the International Conference on American Literature and Popular Culture hosted by
GITAM School of Humanities and Social Sciences, GITAM Deemed-To-Be University Visakhapatnam, 03 - 04 August,
2023.
Presented “Riverine Cartographies, Cultural Dichotomies: Epistemic Reconstitution through the Manasamangal
Kavya” at the International River Congress organised by University of Colorado (USA),Hokkaido University (Japan),
South Asian Institute for advanced Research and Development (India), Kathmandu University and Geomorphological
Society of Nepal (Nepal), 6-8 October 2023.
Participated in the International Delta Summit organised by the Centre for River Affairs, SAIARD, Kolkata, on 16-17
June 2023.
Participated in International Faculty Development Program on ‘Pedagogy and Technology-Enabled Learning’, Centre
for Education and Technology for Education, IIT Jodhpur, Dates: 19th-23rd July, 2023.
National Seminar:
Presented “Ghost Stories of/from Sunderbans: Interdisciplinary Ecologies of Knowledge Systems ” at the National
SeminarDisciplinarity and Difference, organised by Forum on Contemporary Theory (A Member of the Consortium of
Humanities Centers and Institutes), Vadodara, August 20-21, 2023.
Outreach Activities:
Invited to showcase her project “The Royal Bengal(i) Tiger” at the public exhibition titled “The Festival of Libraries”
conducted by the Ministry of Culture, Government of India, in collaboration with Curating for Culture. Delhi ,5-6
August, 2023.
Co-convened the virtual International Faculty Development Program titled Introduction to Digital Humanities co-
organised by the Inter-Disciplinary Research Platform of Digital Humanities, IIT Jodhpur and Scottish Church College,
Kolkata. Dates: August 19-September 16, 2023. In it, acted as the faculty instructor for the session “The Digitised
Academic: Theories and Praxis” held on August 26, 2023.
Invited Talk:
Invited to deliver an online lecture on “Understanding Digital Archiving from the Global South: Concepts and
Concerns” by the Department of Assamese, Tezpur University, 16 October, 2023.
Chapter titled “Time-Bound Yet Time-Less: Performing Crip Time at Blind Opera and Anyadesh” has been published
in anthology titled Out of Time: Temporality in Disabled Performance edited by Benjamin Wihstutz, Noa Winter and
Elena Backhausen, (Taylor & Francis) in July 2023.
South Asia Edition of monograph "To Stage Or Not To Stage: Performing Tagore's Plays" was published by Social
Science Press (Orient Blackswan) in August, 2023.
Essay titled "Ashray and Shushrusha: Performing Embodied Care through Blind Theatre in India" was published in
International journal Performance Research (Taylor & Francis) special issue "On Care '' in September,2023.
Invited Talk:
Attended, invited panel discussion on his monograph "To Stage Or Not To Stage: Performing Tagore's Plays" at
Sanskrit College and University, Kolkata and Department of Painting, Kala Bhavana, Visva-Bharati, Santiniketan.
Rajdeep Konar

Sherin Sabu
Sherin Sabu. When a Woman “Becomes a Dog”: Metaphors of Menstruation in Central Kerala, India, Anthrozoös, 2023.
DOI: 10.1080/08927936.2023.2261282.
Naik and Rastogi Award for Excellence in Ph.D. Research -2021-2023, IIT Bombay.
Presented a paper “Intimacy and the Sociology of gender: Making a Case for Quantitative Methods” by invitation at the
conference “Sociology of Gender: Emerging Issues and Future Agenda” organized by the Department of Sociology,
University of Hyderabad, 27-28 October 2023.
Sumana Som
Som, Sumana ; Mathew, Deepak John ; Vincs, Kim ; 2023. Virtual Reality for Creativity Practice and Art and Design
Education: A Literature Review, Design in the Era of Industry 4.0, Volume 1 (ICORD 2023): Proceedings of ICoRD 2023 /
Amaresh Chakrabarti and Vishal Singh (eds.), 2023, Vol. 343, pp. 1011-1022.
Design Registration (IP):
Design to TOY, in the name of Sumana Som. Design NO: 392465-001.
MESSAGE
TEAM SOLA 
EVENTS
CONTACT
FACULTY ACHIEVEMENTS
ACHIEVEMENTS

The M.Des students
hosted an array of
exhibitions as a part of
their program.
SoLA’s Fun-TAS-tic Fiesta
The School of Liberal Arts
hosted a vibrant array of
social gatherings, blending
intellectual curiosity with
leisure. From engaging
debates and art
exhibitions, to cultural
events and gatherings,
these events were aimed
at fostering a spirited
community. They
celebrated diversity,
sparking connections and
a shared love for learning
and enjoyment.

Aniket Sachan
Model presentation on “Integration between Science
and Society for Better Future” at Research and
Industrial 
Conclave- 
Integration 
2023, 
IIT
Guwahati,14-16, May 2023.
Samya Brata Roy
Moderated the session on “The Existent and the
Imaginary: Decoding the Future through Science Fiction
and Digital Humanities” for the Raleigh Literary Festival
2023 hosted by the Department of English, Aligarh
Muslim University, May 2023.
Delivered a talk on “What is/are the Digital Humanities?”
for 
the 
Online 
International 
Faculty 
Development
Program on Introduction to Digital Humanities jointly
organised by Interdisciplinary Research Platform on
Digital Humanities, IIT Jodhpur and Scottish Church
College, Kolkata. August 2023.
Spoke on “A Dream within a Screen: Techniques of and in
Sultana's Reality” at ELO 2023, Universidade de Coimbra,
Coimbra, Portugal, 12-15 July, 2023.
Chaired a session on “Beyond Electronic Literature” at
ELO 2023, Universidade de Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal,
12-15 July, 2023.
Spoke on “Narratives, Media & the Archive: A Study of
Afrah Shafiq’s Enter Sultana’s Reality” for the New
Postcolonial 
Concerns 
Conference 
on 
‘Documents’
organised by the Faculty of English, University of
Cambridge, 8 June 2023.
ELO 
2023 
Fellowship 
Award 
($500 
and 
1-year
membership)
Juror, Art Exhibition curated by Iva Georgeiva and
Mondheera Pituxcoosuvarn, The International Conference
on Interactive Digital Storytelling (ICIDS) 2023, KIITO
Design and Creative Center Kobe, Japan.
Sanskriti K
Presented the paper titled "Locating Transcultural
Fandom in India's Chennai: A Case Study of K-Wave
India Fan Club” at the Midwest Popular Association
(MPCA/ACA) 
2023 
Virtual 
Graduate 
Student
Conference, 10-11 March, 2023.
Presented the paper titled “What’s Cooking and
Who’s Cooking: Locating the Politics of Ethnic Food
in Select Disney and Pixar Cinema” at DisNet
organized by Disney, Culture, and Society Research
Network, 29-30 June, 2023.
Presented the paper titled "Chopsticks in Manipuri
Kitchen: A Study of Mukbang and Fandom amidst
"Infrastructure of Injustice " at the 14th Biennial
Inter-Asia Cultural Studies Conclave hosted by
Ahmedabad University, 27-29 July, 2023.
Presented the paper titled “Epistemic Racism and
Decolonizing 
Indigenous 
Knowledge 
System:
Assemblages of Media Ecology in Zubaan’s Research
Initiatives” at ACS “Decolonization in the 21st
Century” International Workshop at National Yang
Ming Chiao Tung University, 10-15 August, 2023.
Presented the paper titled “What is in the
foreground? Reorientation of Transnationalism,
Digitality, and Queer Desires in Korean BL Dramas”
at the International Conference on Media and
Communication, organized by Symbiosis Institute of
Media and Communication, Pune, September 28-30,
2023.
Shyan Pal
Top 10% in the portfolio management by Finlatics as a
part of Finlatics Financial Markets Experience Program.
Outstanding Intern Award - PwC India.
Swarnima Banerjee
Presented paper titled “Bengal and Its First Flaneuse: Reading Space in Prabhabati Debi Saraswati’s Detective Fiction”
at Young Researchers’ Conference, organized by Department of English, School of Literary Studies, English and Foreign
Languages University, April 2023.
Presented paper titled “Echoing Liminal Voices: Comics as Counter-Cultural Discourses in India” at Comics on the
Margins organized by Comics Studies Society (Virtual International Presenter Award) June 2023.
Awarded Best Women’s Paper for “Core-Periphery Dialectic: Locating Flaneuses in Prabhabati Debi Saraswati's
Detective Fictions” at Anusandhan 1.0 organised by Research Society at Indian Institute of Technology Mandi, June
2023.
Presented paper tilted “Women as Detectives: Postcolonial Crime Narratives from Bengal" at Captivating Criminality
10: Celebrating Crime Fiction organised by International Crime Fiction Association from 31st August to 2nd September
2023.
MESSAGE
TEAM SOLA 
EVENTS
CONTACT
STUDENT ACHIEVEMENTS
ACHIEVEMENTS

MESSAGE
TEAM SOLA 
EVENTS
CONTACT
XR DESIGN
ACHIEVEMENTS
Masters in Design course delves into the cutting-edge realm of Extended Reality (XR) to create immersive experiences. Led
by expert instructors, this program merges virtual and augmented realities, offering hands-on experience in creating
immersive environments and interactive simulations. Students explore the possibilities of technology and design, mastering
XR tools and techniques to develop innovative solutions across industries. This course equips future designers with the
skills to shape engaging user experiences, pushing the boundaries of design in a digitally evolving world.

School of Liberal Arts
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur 342030, INDIA
MESSAGE
TEAM SOLA 
EVENTS
CONTACT
Contact Us
ACHIEVEMENTS
PC: XR Design Team and SoLA Students