SOURCE_PDF: 4fb3c7758b08_Phd-Thesis-Arnab-Kayal-638984748520465700.pdf

Spectral Projection Methods for Integral and
Integro-Differential Equations
Arnab Kayal (P20MA001)
Supervisor : Dr. Moumita Mandal
Department of Mathematics, IIT Jodhpur
Abstract
Integral and integro-differential equations are widely used in various scientific and
engineering fields. Finding highly accurate approximate solutions often poses significant
challenges, especially when dealing with singularities in the kernel and non-smooth solu-
tions. This thesis explores the development of spectral projection methods to find approx-
imate solutions for various types of linear and nonlinear integral and integro-differential
equations, as well as eigenvalue problems of the integral operators.
We develop Jacobi spectral Galerkin approach for finding approximate solutions of the
linear Fredholm integral equations with an algebraic weakly singular kernel. The exact
solution to this type of equation is generally non-smooth. Our approach incorporates
the singular part of the kernel into a single Jacobi weight function. This enables us to
achieve superconvergence rates in both supremum and weighted L2 norms for non-smooth
solutions using the iterated Jacobi spectral Galerkin method. We also propose Jacobi
spectral multi-Galerkin method and its iterated version, based on the Galerkin approach
and obtain superconvergence results. Additionally, we improve the convergence rate of all
the proposed methods by improving the regularity of exact solution, using a smoothing
transformation. Further, we apply our proposed Jacobi spectral Galerkin approach to
address the eigenvalue problem of Fredholm integral operators with an algebraic weakly
singular kernel on a Banach space. Using this approach, we achieve superconvergence rates
for the approximate eigenvalues obtained by the Jacobi spectral multi-Galerkin method.
Superconvergence for the approximate eigenfunctions is obtained by the iterated Jacobi
spectral multi-Galerkin method.
Next, we investigate a class of nonlinear Fredholm integro-differential equations with
smooth kernel. We find that the Legendre spectral multi-Galerkin, multi-collocation, and
iterated version of Galerkin, multi-Galerkin and multi-collocation methods yield super-
convergence results, despite the presence of unbounded differential operator. Further, we
explore the nonlinear weakly singular Fredholm integral equations of Hammerstein type.
Our proposed iterated Jacobi spectral Galerkin method achieves similar superconvergence
results for non-smooth solutions, as observed in the linear case. Additionally, we demon-
strate the applicability of the Jacobi spectral Galerkin approach for a class of high-order
nonlinear weakly singular integro-differential equations, achieving superconvergence.
Finally, we consider multi-term algebraic weakly singular Volterra integral equations
and propose Chebyshev spectral Galerkin, collocation, multi-Galerkin, and multi-collocation
methods to obtain approximate solutions. We achieve superconvergence for the Chebyshev

spectral multi-Galerkin and multi-collocation methods after the smoothing transforma-
tion and obtain sharp error bounds in the supremum norm by leveraging the behaviour
of the exact solution.
Numerical implementations of all the proposed methods are carried out to verify the
theoretical results.
List of Publications/Pre-prints from the Thesis
1. Mandal, M., Kayal, A., & Nelakanti, G. (2023). Projection methods for approxi-
mate solution of a class of nonlinear Fredholm integro-differential equations. Ap-
plied Numerical Mathematics, 184, 49-76.
2. Kayal, A., & Mandal, M. (2024).
A new approach of shifted Jacobi spectral
Galerkin methods (SJSGM) for weakly singular Fredholm integral equation with
non-smooth solution. Numerical Algorithms, 96(4), 1553-1582.
3. Kayal, A., & Mandal, M. (2025). Superconvergent method for weakly singular
Fredholm-Hammerstein integral equations with non-smooth solutions and its appli-
cation. Applied Numerical Mathematics, 207, 24-44.
4. Kayal, A., & Mandal, M. Jacobi spectral Galerkin methods for eigenvalue problems
of weakly singular integral operators. (Under Review)
5. Kayal, A., & Mandal, M. Chebyshev spectral projection methods for multi-term
weakly singular Volterra integral equations. (Under Review)
Other Publications
1. Kayal, A., Mandal, M., & Nelakanti, G. (2024). Superconvergence of Legendre
spectral projection methods for mth order integro-differential equations with weakly
singular kernels. Journal of Computational and Applied Mathematics, 439,
115585.
2. Gupta, S., Kayal, A., & Mandal, M. (2025). Superconvergence results for hyper-
singular integral equation of first kind by Chebyshev spectral projection methods.
Applied Mathematics and Computation, 487, 129093.