SOURCE_PDF: 5074be00e19f_IITJ-Society-Registration-Certificate-IoT-Act-Amendment-638741927785995290.pdf

59' of 1961.
REGISTERED NO. DHN!04/00071200J-Il
EXTRAORDINARY
PUBUSHED BY AUTHORITY
NEWDELID, THURSDAY, JUNE 21,2012/JYAISTHA3l, 1934 (SAKA)
Separate paging is given to this Part in order that it may be filed as a separate compilation..
MINISTRYOFLAWANDJUSTICE
New Delhi. the2ls!June, 2012/.Jyaistha 31, 1934 (Saka)
The following Act of Parliament received the assent of the President on the
20th June, 2012, and is hereby published for general information:-
THE INSTITUTES OF TECHNOLOGY (AMENDMEN1) ACT, 2012
(No. 34 OF 20 12)
An Act further to amend the Institutes ofTechnology Act, 1961.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty-third Year of the Republic of India as 
follows:-
1. (/)This Act may be called the Institutes ofTechnology (Amendment) Act, 2012. 
Shon title and
(2) It 
shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification 
in the Official Gazette, appoint.
2. In the Institutes of Technology Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the principal 
Act), in section 2, for the words "and the Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee", the 
words "the Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee, the Indian Institute of Technology, 
Bhubaneswar, the Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhi Nagar, the Indian Institute of 
Technology, Hyderabad, the Indian Institute of 
Technology. Indore, the Indian Institute of 
Technology, Jodhpur, the Indian Institute of Technology, Mandi, the Indian Institute of 
Technology, Patna, the Indian Institute of Technology, Ropar and the Indian Institute of 
Technology (Banaras Hindu Universily), Varanasi'' shall be substituted.
Amendment 
of section 2.

Amcndnt.:.ot 
of section 3
2 
TilE GAZETTE OF INOlA EXTRAORDINARY
3. In section 3 of the principal Ac~---
(a) in clause (c), after sub-clause (iv), the following sub-<:lauses shall be 
inserted, namely:-
"(v) in relation to the society known as the Indian Institute ofTechnology, 
Bhubaneswar, the Indian Institute of Technology, Bbubaneswar; 
( 
VIJ in relation to the society known as the Indian Institute of 
Technology, 
Gandhinagar, the Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar;
(vii) in relation to the society known as the Indian Institute ofTechnology, 
Hyderabad, the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad;
(viii} in relation to the society known as the Indian Institute of 
Technology, Indore, the Indian Institute of Technology, Indore;
(ix) in relation to the society known as the Indian Institute of 
Thehnology,
Rajasthan, the Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur;
(x) in relation to the society known as the Indian Institute of 
Technology, 
Mandi, the Indian Institute of Technology, Mandi;
(xl) in relation to the society known as the Indian Institute of 
Technology, 
Patna, the Indian Institute of Technology, Patna;
(xiz) in relation to the society known as the Indian Institute ofTecbnology, 
Punjab, the Indian Institute of Technology, Ropar;
(xiiz) in relation to the Institute ofTechnology, Banaras Hindu University, 
referred to in Statute 25(AXI) of the Statutes set out in the Schedule to the 
Banaras Hindu University Act, 1915, the Indian Institute of Technology 
(Banaras Hindu University), Varanasi;";
(b) after clause (g), the following clause shall be inserted, narnely:-
'(ga) "Institute of Technology, Banaras Hindu University" means the 
Institute of Technology, Banaras Hindu University, referred to in Statute 
25(AX H 
of 
the Statutes set out in the Schedule to the Banaras Hindu 
University
(c) iQ clause (J), after sub-clause (iiz), the following sub-clauses shall be inserted,
"(iv) the Indian Institute of Technology, Bhubaneswar;
(v) the Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar;
(vi) the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad;
(viz) the Indian Institute of Technology, Indore;
(viiz) the Indian Institute of Technology, Rajasthan;
(ir) the Indian Institute of Technology, Mandi;
(x) the Indian Institute of Technology, Patna;
(xl) the Indian Institute of Technology, Punjab;";
(d) after clause (1). the following clause shall be inserted, narnely:-
'(m) "zone", in relation to an Institute, means such group of States and 
Union territories as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official 
Gazette, specify.'.
16 of 1915.
16 of 1915.

SEC. lj 
THE GAZETTE OF lNDlAFXTRAORDINARY 
3
4. ln section 4 of 
the principal Act, after sub-section U 
q, 
the following sub-section Amendment
shall be inserted, namely:--
of section 4.
"(I 
D) The Institute of Technology, Banaras Hindu University shall, on such
incorporation, be called the Indian Institute ofTechnology (Banaras Hindu Univmity), 
Varanasi.n.
S. In section 5 of the principal Act, the Explanation shall be numbered as Amendment 
Explanation 1 thereof and after Explanation I as so numbered, the following Explanation of section l. 
shall be inserted, namely:-
" 
Explanation 2. -
The reference in this section to the commencement of this 
Act shall be construed in relation to the Indian Institute ofTechnology, Bhubaneswar, 
the Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar, the Indian Institute of 
Technology, 
Hyderabad, the Indian Institute of Technology, Indore, the Indian Institute of 
Technology, Jodhpur, the Indian Institute of Technology, Mandi, the Indian Institute 
of 
Technology, Patna and the Indian Institute of 
Technology, Ropar, as the reference ,
to the date on which tbe provisions of the Institutes of Technology (Amendment) 
Act, 20 12 come into force.".
6. After section 5A of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted, Insertion of 
namely:-
new se<tion 5B.
"5B. On and from the commencement of the Institutes of Technology Effect of 
(Amendment) Act, 2012,-
incorporation 
of Indian
(a) any reference to the Institute of Technology, Banaras Hindu 
University in any law for the time being in force (other than this Act) or in any 
contract or other instrument shall be deemed as a reference to the Indian 
Institute of 
Technology (Banaras Hindu University), Varanasi;
(b) all property, movable and immovable, of 
or belonging to the Institute 
of Technology, Banaras Hindu Univmity, shall vest in the Indian Institute of 
Technology (Banaras Hindu Univetsity), Yaranasi;
(c) all rights and liabilities ofthe Institute ofTechnology, Banaras Hindu 
University shall be transferred to, and be the rights and liabilities ot; the 
Indian Institute of Technology (Banaras Hindu University), Varanasi;
(d) every person employed in the Institute ofTechnology, Banaras Hindu 
University immediately before such commencement shall hold his office or 
service in the Indian Institute of Technology (Banaras Hindu University), 
Varanasi by the same tenure, at the same remuneration and upon the same 
terms and conditions and with the same rights and privileges as to pension, 
leave, gratuity, provident fund and other matters as he would have held the 
same if 
this Act had not been passed and shall continue to do so unless and 
until his employment is terminated or until such tenure, remuneration and
terms and conditions are duly altered by the Statutes:
Provided that if 
the alteration so made is not acceptable to such employee, 
his employment may be terminated by the Indian Institute of Technology 
(Banaras Hindu University), Varanasi in accordance with the terms of the 
contract with the employee or, if no provision is made therein in this behalf; on 
payment to him b)'. the Indian Institute of Technology (Banaras Hindu 
Univernity), Yaranasi of 
compensation equivalent to three months' remuneration 
in the case of 
permanent employees and one month's remuneration in the case 
of other employees:
Institute of 
Technology 
(Banans Hindu 
University), 
Varmasi.

4 
THEGAZETTEOFINDIAEXTRAORDINARY 
(PAKrll-
======== 
===========
Provided further that any reference, by whatever fonn of word.•, to the 
Director of the Institute of Teclmology, Banaras Hindu Univen;ity in any law 
for the time bei11g in force, or in any instrument or other document. shaU be 
construed as a reference to the Director oftbe Indian Institute of 
Technology 
(Banaras Hindu Univer!!ity), Varanasi; and
(e) on the commencement of 
the Institutes of 
Technology (Amendment) 
Act,2012,-
(1) the Vice-chancellor of 
the Banaras Hindu University, appointed 
under the provisions of 
the Banaras Hindu University Act, 1915 shall be 
deemed to have been appointed as ex officio Chainnan of the Board of 
Governors of the Indian Institute of Technology (Banaras Hin.du
University), Varanasi under this Act, and shall hold office for a period of 
three years with effect from such commencement;
(il) the Director of the Institute of Technology. Banaras Hindu
University, appointed under the provisions of the Banaras Hindu 
University Act, 1915 shall be deemed to have been appointed as Director 
of the Indian Institute of Technology (Banaras Hindu University), 
Varanasi under this Act, and shall bold his office till Director is appointed 
under this AcL
Explanation.-The reference in this section to the commencement of 
this Act sbali be construed in relation to the Indian Institute of Technology 
(Banaras Hindu University), Varanasi as the reference to the date on which the 
provisions of 
the Institutes of Technology (Amendment) Act, 2012 come into
Amendment 
7. In section 6 of 
the principal Act, after sub-section (1), the following sub-section 
of section 6. 
shall be inserted, namely:-
Amendment 
of section II.
"(JA) subject to the provisions of this Act, every Institute may strive to meet 
the technological needs of the States and the Union territories included in its zone 
by-
(a) supporting and collaborating with technical education institutions 
located in the zone with a view to enhance their quality and capability;
(b) advising the State Governments and the Union territories included in 
its zone in the matter of technical education and any technological issue 
referred by them to the Institute for advice.".
8. ln section 11 of the principal Act,-
(1) after clause (e), the following proviso shall be inserted, namely:-
"Provided that in the case of the Indian Institute ofTechnology (Banaras 
Hindu Univer!!ity), Varanasi,-
(a) the Board of such Institute shall consist of Vice.Chainnan to
be nominated, after a period of three years from the commencement of 
the Institutes of Technology (Amendment) Act, 2012, by the Executive 
Council referred to in clause (d) of section 2 of the Banaras Hindu 
University Act, 1915, from amongst its members including its 
Vice-chancellor;"';
(b) four per!!Ons to be nominated under clause (d), out of which 
two persons to be nominated by the Executive Council referred to in 
clause (d) of section 2 of the Banaras Hindu University Act, 1915, from 
amongst its members including its Vice-Chancellor;";
(il) the Explanation shall be omitted.
16 of 1915.
1,6 of 1915.
16 of 1915.
16 of 1915.

16 of 1915.
16 of 1915
16 of 1915.
SEc.!] 
THE GAZETIE OF INDIAEXTRAORDL"'ARY 
5
9. In section 14 of the principal Act, after clause (e), the following proviso shall be Amendment
imoened., namely:-
of section 14.
"Provided that in case of the Indian Institute of Technology (Banaras Hindu
University), Varanasi, three members shall be nominated by the Executive Council 
referred to in clause (d) of section 2 of 
the Banaras Hindu University Act, 1915.".
10. In section 38 of 
the principal Act,-
(a) after clause (1/, the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:-
"(/) until the first Statutes and Ordinances in relation to the Indian Institute
ofTechnology, Bhubaneswar, the L~dian Institute ofTechnology, Gandhinagar, 
the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad, the Indian Institute of 
Technology, Indore, the Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur, the Indian 
Institute ofTechaology, Mandi, the Indian Institute of 
Technology, Patna and 
the Indian Institute of 
Technology, Ropar are made under this Ac~ 
the Statutes
and Ordinances of such Institute, as in force immediately before the 
commencement of the Institutes of 
Technology (Amendment) Act, 2012, shall
apply to those Institutes with necessary modifications and adaptations 
in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act;
(k) the Executive Council, referred to in clause (d) of section 2 of the 
Banaras Hindu University Act, 1915, functioning as such immediately before 
the commencement of the Institutes of Technology (Amendment) Act, 2012, 
shall continue to so function until a new Board is constituted for the Indian 
Institute of Technology (Banaras Hindu University), Varanasi under this Ac~ 
but on the constitution of a new Board under this Act, the Executive Council 
of the Banaras Hindu University shall cease to function so far as the Indian 
Institute of 
Technology (Banaras Hindu University), Varanasi is concerned;
(I) the Academic Council, referred to in clause (a) of section 2 of 
the 
Banaras Hindu University Act, 1915, functioning as such immediately before 
the commencement of the Institutes of Technology (Amendment) Act, 2012 
shall continue to so function until a new Senate is constituted for the Indian 
Institute of Technology (Banaras Hindu University), Varanasi under this Act, 
but on the constitution of a new Senate under this Act, the Academic Council 
of the Banaras Hindu University shall cease to function so far as the Indian 
Institute of Technology (Banaras Hindu University), Varanasi;
(m) until the first Statutes and the Ordinances in relation to the Indian 
Institute of Technology (Banaras Hindu University), Varanasi are made under 
this Act, the Statutes and Ordinances as are applicable to lbe Indian Institute 
ofTechnology, Kanpur inunediately before the commencement of 
the Institutes 
of Technology (Amendment) Act, 2012, shall apply to the Indian Institute of 
Technology (Banaras Hindu University), Varanasi with the necessary 
modifications and adaptations in so far as they are not inconsistent with the 
provisions of this Act;
(n) notwithstanding anything contained in the Institutes ofTechnology 
(Amendment) Act, 2012, any student who joined classes of the Institute of 
Technology, Banaras Hindu University on or after the commencement of 
2006-2007 academic session or completed the courses on or after2009-2010 
academic session shall for the purpose of clause (b) of S11l>-section (/) of 
section 6, be deemed to have pursued a course of study in the Indian ln>titute
·· ofTechnology (Banaras Hindu University), Varanasi provided that sucl• -toldcut
has not already been awarded degree or diploma for the same course of 
study,
( 
o) if any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of the 
Institutes of Technology (Amendment) Act, 2012, the Central Govemmetll
Amendment of 
scdion 38

may, by order published in the Official Gazette, make such provisions not 
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as may appear to be nec~o;sary 
for removiJ1g the difficulty:
Provided that no order shall be made under this clause after the expiry 
of two years from the commencement of the Institutes of Technology 
(Amendment) Act, 2012:
Provided further that every order made under this clause shall be laid, as 
soon as may be after it is made, before each House of 
Parliament.";
(b) after Explanation 2, the following Explanation shall be inserted, namely:-
" 
Explanation 3.-The reference in clauses (k), (I) and (m) of 
this section 
to the commencement of this Act shall be construed in relation to 1he Indian 
Institute of 
Technology (Banaras Hindu University), Varanasi, as the referenc-e 
to the date on which the provisions of the Institutes of Technology 
(Amendment) Act, 2012 come into force.".
Secretary to the Govt. of 
India.
PRINTED BY DIRECTORATE OF PRINTING 1\.f GOVERNMENT OF INOlA PRESS. MINTO ROAD, NEW OE:l.HJ AND
PUBUSHED BY Tiffi CONTROLLER OF PUBUCATIONS. DELHI. 2012.