SOURCE_PDF: 57cfe0c29a56_Norms-for-Research-Development-638741906663985707.pdf

Norms for Research & Development
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
June 2018

Norms for Research & Development Projects

Norms for Research & Development Projects
1. PREAMBLE
The Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur, hereinafter referred to as the Institute, facilitates its
Faculty Members and Academic Staff Members to undertake: 
(1) Research and Development (R&D) activities; and 
(2) Technology Development, Transfer and Patenting activities, and 
(3) Continuing Education and Outreach activities, 
in association with Staff Members and Students of the Institute, thereby contributing to nations 
technology needs. This is accomplished through the Office of Research & Development of the Institute.
The above activities are organized and managed through the Office of R&D. The
organizational structure to steer these R&D activities and the hierarchy of reporting are shown in 
Figure 1; the said hierarchy is adopted for both administrative and financial matters. The Dean 
(R&D) is the operational head of the Office of R&D. In his absence, the Associate Dean (R&D) will 
assume the roles and responsibilities of the Dean (R&D).
Figure 1: Organizational structure steering activities of Office of R&D at IIT Jodhpur
Board of Governors
Finance Committee
Director
Dean (R&D)
Deputy Director
R&D Committee
Assistant Registrar (R&D)
Associate Dean (R&D)
Chairman, Center for Advanced Scientific Equipment
Nominee of Director
Heads and Professors-in-charge of Departments
Assistant Registrar (R&D) or Staff Member (R&D)
Office of R&D
Project Stores & Purchase
Project Administration
Project Accounts

Norms for Research & Development Projects
2. OFFICE OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
The Office of Research & Development provides specialized administrative and financial
support for all activities organized under the banner of R&D at the Institute, e.g., Sponsored 
Research Projects, Consultancy Projects, and Academia-Industry Interactions. The Office of R&D 
facilitates Faculty Members to interact with national and international funding agencies and R&D 
laboratories, and to file patents and document IPR generated through R&D activities at the Institute. 
 
 
2.1 Functions
The Office of R&D shall undertake three sets of activities, namely:
(a) Project Administration; 
(b) Accounts and Audit; and 
(c) Stores and Purchase; 
 
(a) Project Administration 
 
The Office of R&D will support the PI in the following aspects related to the formal aspects
of seeking grants, accounts and finances of the project: 
(1) Submitting the Proposals:
A Faculty Member or Academic Staff Member, hereinafter called the Project Investigator (PI),
who wishes to seek grant-in-aid or financial support for undertaking the proposed sponsored 
research, consultancy and outreach activities, shall route the proposal through the Office of R&D. 
The PI shall provide the following: 
(a) The duly filled Proposal in the format asked for by the external agency, 
(b) The endorsement of the Head of the Department with which the PI is associated. 
(c) The check list duly filled, especially indicating the space requirements, which is endorsed
by the Estate Officer and Chairman, Center for Advanced Scientific Equipment, agreeing that the 
resources being sought can be made available.
The Dean (R&D) shall verify that all administrative matters are examined and the proposal is in 
order, and send the same to the Director for providing the approval to file the proposal and the 
Endorsement Certificate, when needed by the External Agency. 
 
Proposals, which are not forwarded by the Institute, cannot be registered at the Institute in
retrospect at any point after seeking the approval from the funding agency.
(2) Registering the Project: 
 
 
When a funding agency sanctions a project, a New Project Registration form is filled by the PI
and submitted along with the Sanction Letter, Agreement, MoU and Revised Proposal. The Office 
of R&D will register the project and provide a unique Project Account Number with budget heads 
(the budget amounts sanctioned under each head) created as indicated in the Sanction Letter of 
the funding agency. The project is Operational on receipt of the grant in the form of cheque or 
bank transfer from the external agency.
(3) Operating the Project: 
 
 
The PI (and Co-PI, if any) have the responsibility and freedom to execute the project in line
with the proposal agreed upon with the external agency. They shall expend the funds of the 
project, as per the delegation of the financial powers of the Institute and as per the General 
Financial Rules 2017 approved by the Board of Governors of the Institute. In no case, the 
expenditure under any head of expenditure shall exceed the amount sanctioned under that head. 
Re-appropriation of funds between various budgets heads is permitted only with the prior 
approval of the funding agency. When such an approval is available from the funding agency, 
the PI may request for the re-appropriation of funds along with the approval of the funding 
agency.
(4) Submitting Progress Reports: 
 
 
The PI is responsible for the timely submission of various reports sought by the funding

Norms for Research & Development Projects
(5) Transferring Non-Recurring Assets: 
 
 
On completion of the project, and until the external agency demands transferring the Non-
Recurring Assets to a destination outside the Institute, the said Non-Recurring Assets will lie 
with the Institute.
The Office of R&D supports the PI in the following aspects related to the personnel of the
project: 
(1) Maintaining Records: 
 
 
The Office of R&D undertakes to assist the PI in two primary tasks, namely appointment of
Project Staff Members, and maintenance of their personal file, leave records, payment of HRA, 
contract agreements, etc.
(2) Appointing Project Staff Members:
The Office of R&D will assist the PI in:
(a) Seeking approval of the Competent Authority of the Advertisement and the Selection
Committee proposed by PI, against post(s) vacant in the project;
(b) Publishing the advertisement on the Institute website after the approval is accorded; 
(c) Assisting the PI in the screening of applications received for the advertised project posts –
The PI will hold the meeting for screening of the applications received, submit to the Office 
of R&D the report along with the proposed schedule of the interview;
(d) Issuing a call letter to the applicants screened to be called for the interview; 
(e) Assisting the PI in the interviewing of applicants appearing in person – The PI will convene
the Selection Committee meeting on the scheduled date and time, and conduct the interview. 
And, after the interview, the PI will submit to the Office of R&D the Report of the Selection 
Committee along with original applications of recommended candidate(s);
(f) Seeking the approval of the Director on the recommendation of the Selection Committee –
After scrutinizing the Report of the Selection Committee, the Office will submit the 
recommendation to the Director for approval;
(g) Appointing Project Staff Members – After seeking the Director’s approval, the Office of
R&D will issue the appointment letter; and
(h) Joining of Project Staff Member and Signing of Contract Agreement – When the persons
offered appointment letters report to the PI for joining the duties, the PI will submit the 
Joining Report of the Project Staff Member to the Office of R&D. After acceptance of the 
Joining Report by the Competent Authority, a unique Project Personnel File Number is 
assigned and a personal file opened at the Office of R&D. The Project Staff Member will 
submit the duly signed Contract Agreement on the specified judicial paper.
(b) Project Stores and Purchase 
 
All purchases made using the funds of the project need to comply with the norms of
financial transactions approved by the Institute. It is the responsibility of the PI to become familiar 
with the General Financial Rules 2017 adopted by the Institute. Items purchased using the project 
funds are property of the Institute, and shall be used solely for project purposes during the term of 
the Project. On closure of the project, they become the property of the Institute, unless there is a 
specific provision or requirement of returning the same to the funding agency. Consequently, each 
such item will be recorded in the Assets Register of the Office of Stores & Purchase of the Institute. The 
equipment may be used for other activities after the term of the project, with the approval of the 
Director.

Norms for Research & Development Projects
(c) Project Accounts
The Office of R&D will undertake the following activities related to operation and
management of project funds: 
(1) Preparation of receipt and payment vouchers; 
(2) Disbursement of salary of Project Staff Members; 
(3) Generation of SR (system entry); 
(4) Issuance of cheques; 
(5) Reconciliation of cheque and cash ledgers on daily basis; 
(6) Payments of LC and TT; 
(7) Reconciliation of Bank statements on monthly basis; 
(8) Deposition of taxes as income, service or others to Government agencies; 
(9) Receipt and payment accounts; 
(10) Investment of R&D funds and monitoring of the same; and 
(11) Preparation of annual accounts. 
 
 
In addition, the Office of R&D will support the PI in the following:
(1) Submitting Statement of Accounts: 
 
 
A statement of accounts would be made available to the PI on request, with the current fund
(2) Auditing Expenditure Accounts: 
 
 
Normally, all accounts of all projects registered in the Office of R&D are audited annually by
CAG. In case, an interim Statement of Audited Accounts is sought by the funding agency, the 
same will be issued with the endorsement of the Chartered Accountant empanelled by the 
Institute.
(3) Submitting Utilization Certificate: 
 
 
Normally, the Annual Utilization Certificate (UC) providing an authentic statement of
expenditure incurred in a project at the end of the Financial Year; this is based on the audited 
statement of expenditure. In case, an interim Statement of Utilization Certificate is sought by the 
funding agency, the same will be issued with the endorsement of the Chartered Accountant 
empanelled by the Institute. Any such UC shall take 15 days to prepare after the request is 
made; it is the responsibility of the PI to make the request in time for the submission.
(4) Submitting Invoices: 
 
 
The PI is responsible for submitting to the External Agency the Invoice seeking grant-in-aid
as per the requirement of project. The Office of R&D will provide any information needed in 3 
days after the request is made; it is the responsibility of the PI to make the request in time for 
the submission.
(5) Extending Project Duration: 
 
 
The duration of the project may extended, if approved by the external agency.
(6) Closing Project and Submitting Completion Report: 
 
 
The PI is responsible for submitting the Project Completion Report to the Institute and the
external agency. The Office of R&D will close the Project Account, as per the Sanction Order of 
the external agencies. Any unutilized fund, if any, at the time of closing the project, will be 
returned to the external agency. In consultancy projects, the balance amount can be utilized 
according to approved norms of the Institute.
(7) Seeking Loans: 
 
 
No loan can be provided by the Institute for running the projects. The PI can utilise fund
available in the PDA of the PI, for meeting needs of a project as an interim measure. But, the 
responsibility lies with the PI of seeking the next installment of funds, and recouping the loan 
from the PDA of the PI.
(8) Declaring Interest Income:
When external agency seeks declaration of the interest income earned owing to untilised
grant, the Institute will provide Interest at a rate of 0.5% less than the prevailing saving account 
rate on the lowest balance made available during the year by the bank to the Institute.

Norms for Research & Development Projects
3. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
The hierarchy directly responsible for steering activities of the Office of Research &
Development includes: 
(1) Dean (Research & Development); 
(2) Research & Development Committee; and 
(3) Project Investigator. 
The roles and responsibilities of these three entities are described below. 
 
 
3.1 Dean (R&D)
A regular Faculty Member of the Institute will be appointed duly by the Director as Dean
(Research & Development). The Dean (R&D) will steer the activities of Research & Development 
through the Office of R&D.
A regular Faculty Member of the Institute will be appointed duly by the Director as Associate
Dean (Research & Development). The Associate Dean (R&D) will assist the Dean (R&D) in steering the 
activities of Research & Development through the Office of R&D. In the absence of Dean (R&D), the 
Associate Dean (R&D) will assume the responsibilities of the Dean (R&D). 
 
 
3.2 Research and Development Committee
The Research & Development Committee will be proposed by the Dean (R&D) and approved by
the Director. It will consist of: 
(1) Chairman : Dean (R&D) as; 
(2) Members : Heads and Professors-in-charge of Departments; 
 
 
 
: Chairman, Chairman, Center for Advanced Scientific Equipment; and
: One Nominee of the Director.
The Assistant Registrar (R&D) or senior-most Staff Member of the Office of R&D shall be the Secretary 
of the Committee.
The R&D Committee has the mandate to:
(1) Encourage Faculty Members to write research proposals to national and international funding
(2) Propose policies related to conduct of R&D Projects at the Institute; 
(3) Coordinate signing of Memoranda of Understating (MoUs) and Non-Disclosure Agreements (NDAs)
with others organizations, universities and institutes;
(4) Streamline the functions of the Office of R&D, and guide Office of R&D from time to time; 
(5) Ensure that all finances are handled as per the norms of the Institute, funding agency, and
Government of India, and that the Utilization Certificates are submitted in a timely manner to the 
funding agencies;
(6) Ensure all purchase related items are routed through the Office of Stores & Purchase of the
Institute; and
(7) Encourage the PI to undertake the needed communication with the funding agencies.

Norms for Research & Development Projects
3.3 Project Investigator 
 
Each project will have a Project Investigator (PI), who is a Faculty Member or Academic Staff
Member of the Institute, on regular service or on contract service with scale. Faculty Members on 
Guest or Contract (on fixed salary) cannot be a PI of any project. The Director may appoint a Group 
A Officer as a PI of projects that are primarily meant to steer specific activities of the Institute. The PI 
will be solely responsible for: 
(1) Formulating project proposals, which may include: (a) planning the scope of the work to be
done, (b) estimating cost involved in achieving the objectives of the project; and (c) Identifying 
Co-Investigators, if required, who are Faculty Member(s) of the Institute.
(2) Coordinating and executing the project work; 
(3) Handling all communications with the funding agency; 
(4) Submitting interim and final reports to funding agencies according to the project proposal; 
(5) Ensuring that all reports bear the name of the PI and his/her signatures, and the name(s) of the
other Co-Investigator(s), who participated in the project;
(6) Signing Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) or Agreements with the funding agency, if
required, after the due approval of the Director;
(7) Making recommendations to Director regarding honoraria to be paid to Faculty Members, Staff
Members and Students, if applicable; and
(8) PI will be responsible for all the financial transactions of the project. 
 
(a) Project Proposal
The PI will prepare project proposal in conformity with:
(1) Designation and emoluments rates for Project Staff Members, commensurate with the
qualification and experience specified by the funding agency or the Institute;
(2) Provision for Institute Overhead Charges as per the norms of the Institute; 
(3) Other guidelines issued by the funding agency; and 
(4) Applicable Rules, Regulations & Statutes of the Institute.
While making an estimate of the funds required for a project, the PI should consider the
following budgets heads: 
(1) Salaries of Project Staff Members and Project-funded Ph.D. students; 
(2) Equipment; 
(3) Consumables; 
(4) Contingency; 
(5) Travel (Domestic, and International, if permitted); 
(6) Institute Overhead; and 
(7) Others Expenditures (if any). 
 
(b) Project Staff Member Salary
While estimating the budget required under Salary Head, the PI has to identify the positions
required depending on the nature of project activity. The proposal once approved by the funding 
agency for specific category of Staff Members, their emoluments cannot be changed or altered. In 
case the funding agency provides a consolidated fund under Salary Head, the positions and 
emoluments as per the Institute’s norms will be applicable for Project Staff Members appointment.
(c) Equipment
When a equipment is to be returned to the funding agency after completion of the project,
the same should be clearly spelled out explicitly in the project proposal, supported by written 
communication before the start of the project from the funding agency to this effect.

Norms for Research & Development Projects
(d) Co-Project Investigator (Co-PI)
The PI can co-opt other Faculty Member(s) of the Institute as additional Investigators. The
Director may permit, at the request of the PI, a Group A Officer of the Institute as Co-PI of a project. 
In case a PI leaves the Institute, retires, proceeds on leave, or is unavailable for some reason: 
(1) the Co-PI will assume the powers and responsibilities of the PI; or 
(2) in the absence of a pre-announced Co-PI, the Director, on the request of PI, with due
endorsement of the Head of the concerned Department and on the recommendation of the Dean 
(R&D), will appoint a new PI, who will assume the powers and responsibilities of the PI.
The new PI will need to furnish an undertaking agreeing to complete the project with the remaining 
funds within the duration specified by the funding agency. 
 
(e) Project Implementation
The PI shall be responsible to get project work completed as per the proposal within the
sanctioned grant and duration. Also, the PI shall ensure that the head-wise expenditure does not 
exceed the budgetary allocation as sanctioned by funding agency.
(f) Project Closure
At the end of the duration of the project, the PI will undertake the closing the Project File in
the Office of R&D by submitting: 
(1) The Final Project Report, 
(2) The final Settlement of Accounts, 
(3) The Certificate stating that the deliverables have been completed, 
(4) The detailed Statement of Assets generated in the project, and 
(5) Return the unspent balance to funding agency.

S.No. Head Share
1 Recurring 0.8X
2 Equipment
3 Others
4 Institute Overhead 0.2X
Total Project Cost X
Norms for Research & Development Projects
4. TYPES OF PROJECTS
The Institute encourages faculty members to seek external funds from Government and non-
government agencies to pursue R&D activities in areas of their competence. The Office of R&D 
administers these projects in keeping with the guidelines agreed upon with the funding agencies. 
Currently, the Office administers four types of R&D projects, namely: 
(1) Sponsored Research Projects; 
(2) Consultancy Projects; 
(3) Outreach Projects; and 
(4) Routine Testing Projects; and 
(5) Fellowship Projects. 
In addition, it administers three others projects based on funding from Grant in Aid from MHRD, 
namely 
(6) Seed Grant; 
(7) Professional Development Account (PDA); and 
(8) Institute Projects. 
 
 
4.1 Sponsored Research Projects
Individual or a group of Faculty Members of the Institute can write research project proposals
to seek competitive grants from extra-mural research funding agencies in India or abroad. Faculty 
Members may approach various national (e.g., DST, DBT, CSIR, BRNS, ARDB, DRDO and ISRO) or 
international (e.g., bilateral government agencies, such as Indo-Japan, Indo-UK, Indo-Italian and Indo-
Russian agencies) funding agencies and industries for a sponsored research project. The PI will 
adhere to the funding agency norms alongside complying with the Institute term and conditions. 
Also, some funding agencies may provide grants for writing books, preparing films, and creating 
teaching-learning resources. Such projects shall be treated also as Sponsored Research Projects.
In specific instances, the Office of R&D will administer the Multi-Institute Collaborative
Projects, which are projects seeking fund from a funding agency simultaneously for more than one 
Institute (including IIT Jodhpur). The project proposal should bifurcate clearly the money requested 
from the funding agency for Institute and for the other Institute(s). The PI should obtain a separate 
approval of the Director before seeking such internal financial support from external agencies.
Sponsored research project proposals may be submitted as per the format of the respective
funding agencies. Generally, these formats are available on the websites of the agencies. The 
following points should be considered while writing the proposal: 
(1) The Institute Overhead shall be 20% of the total grant being sought from the agency. Any
departure from the above should be duly notified to and approval sought from the Director 
before sending such a proposal. In special cases, on the recommendation of the Dean (R&D), the 
Director may accord partial waiver of the Institute Overheads, based on the facts and 
circumstances of the conditions; and
(2) The calculation of Institute Overhead shall be as per Table 1 for Sponsored Research Projects.
The Overhead so collected will be utilised as per Table 2.
Table 1: Calculation of Institute Overhead off the Total Project Cost

S.No. Accounts at the Institute Share
1 Total Overhead received Y
2 Institute Overhead Account 0.50Y
3 R&D Overhead Account 0.35Y
4 IPR Processing Fund 0.05Y
5 Professional Development Account (PDA) of PI Faculty Member 0.06Y
6 Professional Development Account (PDA) of Co-PI Faculty Member, if any 0.04Y
Norms for Research & Development Projects
Table 2: Utilisation of Institute Overheads collected from Sponsored Research Projects
(3) The government funding agencies (like DST, DBT, CSIR, BRNS, ARDB, DRDO and ISRO) have
their own overhead norms. In those cases, the Institute Overhead will be charged as per the 
norms of government funding agency. No overhead will be charged from any project funded by 
the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), Government of India.
(4) Endorsement Certificate shall be printed on Institute letterhead and signed by the Director, based
on the recommendation of the PI and Dean (R&D).
(5) Both soft and hard copies of the proposal shall be submitted to Office of R&D for records, before
sending the same to the funding agencies.
(6) The research project proposal must contain a clear statement of yearly expenditure under
different heads. This proposed scheduled expenditure and manpower mentioned in proposal 
shall be adhered to by the PI. Any deviation from the stated head needs prior approval of 
sponsoring agency. In case, where the funding agency revises the budget under the different 
heads, the budget shall be binding under different heads as approved by the funding agency.
(7) The gains of the IPs and Patents generated from the sponsored project will be shared between
the funding agency and IIT Jodhpur; this should be stated in the proposal. In the absence of 
such clarity, the IP Policy of IIT Jodhpur shall be binding on both the parties.
When a project proposal is approved by the funding agency, a new project account shall be
opened with the Office of R&D for its operation and monitoring. Further: 
(1) Utilization Certificate should be submitted by PI on time to the funding agency. 
(2) After completion of the project, Final Technical Report should be submitted to the funding
agency, and a copy of the same submitted for record to the Office of R&D;
(3) After submission of the Final Technical Report, a Completion Certificate should be obtained from
the funding agency for successful completion of the project, and based on this certificate, the 
project account will be closed at the Institute after settlement of all the committed expenditures;
(4) After final notification of closure from the funding agency, assets generated from the project,
shall be audited by the Office of Store & Purchase. The asset transfer, if any, will be facilitated by 
the Office of R&D;
(5) No honorarium or consultation fee can be charged from the sponsored research projects. This
fact shall be clearly stated in project proposal, approved and sanctioned by the funding agency. 
Nominal payment to be made to individuals outside the Institute to manufacture a product for 
research project shall be treated as an exception.
(6) Normally, the Institute will neither charge any interest from the funding agencies in case of any
delay in the reimbursement of expenditure or transfer of the funds from the funding agency 
towards the execution of the project, nor pay any interest, if earned, on the unspent grant 
received. In exceptional cases, this shall be treated as per Clause 2.1(c).

Norms for Research & Development Projects
4.2 Consultancy Projects
Faculty Members may offer technical consultancy services to governments, industries and
private individuals, based on their competence, acting as PI of the project. These projects should 
provide challenges to and befit the professional competence of the Faculty Member, failing which 
the Institute reserves the right to decline the permission to undertake the project. Further, the 
Institute shall in no way be responsible for any loss or negative consequence that may arise out of 
the deliverables of Consultancy Projects undertaken by the PI. And, the PI is advised to write clear 
agreements with the funding agencies to limit their own liability. Further: 
(1) The Institute Overhead in Consultancy Projects shall be 30% of the amount A being charged as
the fee. This amount A does not include the GST, which for Consultancy Projects shall be as per 
the rates prevalent and decided by the Government of India;
(2) The total fee of the project should be paid by the funding agency to the Institute before the
commencement of the work. All payment made by the funding agency for consultancy projects 
shall be routed only through the Institute, i.e., whenever payments are received, they should be 
received by the Institute and not by the individual Faculty Member. The Institute will do the 
needful to comply with the statutory laws (e.g., GFR 2017), and then release the honorarium to 
the Faculty Members and Staff Members as applicable. The expenditure and disbursements 
shall be made as per the Institute norms.
(3) Once a Consultancy Project is approved by the funding agency and the funds are received at the
Institute, a new project account will be opened in the Office of R&D. Each proposal must contain 
a clear statement of the honorarium or consultancy fee to be paid to the hired consultants, if any. 
If this is not written in the proposal, no consultant can be hired.
(4) A Completion Certificate should be obtained from the funding agency after successful completion
of the project. Based on this, 
(a) PIs and others involved can be paid the honorarium or consultancy fee. The total
honorarium paid to the Faculty Members and Staff Members of the Institute shall not exceed 
two-thirds of the Consultancy Fee A charged to the agency (Total Fee Received from the 
funding agency minus the GST); and
(b) Project will be closed.
(5) After the completion of the project, a final report should be submitted to the funding agency
with a copy to Office of R&D for record.
(6) Any amount payable as honorarium to the Faculty Member from the funds of the project may
be transferred to PDA of the PI.
(7) A Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA), if required, should be signed a priori between the PI and
funding agency. Also, the IPs and Patents generated during the project should be shared by the 
funding agency and the Institute. The proposals shall clarify on this. In the absence of such a 
clarification, guidelines developed by the Institute shall be binding on both the parties.
(8) The fund received may be used to cover the expenses related the site visit, meetings outside the
Institute and participation in conferences within India or abroad. There is no restriction from the 
Institute on travel by air or taxi on grounds of entitlement. Actual boarding and lodging 
expenses will be paid on production of payment receipt, as per the Institute norms.
(9) The time spent by the PI on all consultancy projects together should be limited to one day per
week, on an average. Absence of PI in regular activities on campus, owing to the Consultancy 
Project, should be limited to 30 days in a year, but not exceeding 7 working days during the 
class days of the semester. Sufficient caution needs to be exercised by the Faculty Member and 
the associated Head/Professor-in-Charge of the Department, and ensure that consultancy 
project does not interfere with the normal duties of the Faculty Member.
(10)The calculation of Overhead from Consultancy Project shall be as per Table 3. The utilisation of
Overheads C collected from Consultancy Projects shall be as per Table 4.

S.No. Head Share
1 Amount of Consultancy Fee Charged after deducting GST A
2 Goods and Service Tax as applicable (-) B
3 Institute Overhead (as per norms) (-) C
4 Expenditure (-) D
Balance for payment to persons involved A – (B + C + D)
S.No. Units of the Institute to which Credited Share
1 Total Institute Overhead received C
2 Institute Overhead Account 0.50C
3 R&D Overhead Account 0.35C
4 IPR Processing Fund 0.05C
5 Professional Development Account (PDA) of PI Faculty Member 0.06C
6 Professional Development Account (PDA) of Co-PI Faculty Member, if any 0.04C
S.No. Units of the Institute Share
1 Total Fee received after deducting GST X
2 Institute Overhead Account 0.50X
3 R&D Overhead Account 0.18X
4 IPR Processing Fund 0.02X
5 Professional Development Account (PDA) of PI Faculty Member 0.18X
6 Professional Development Account (PDA) of Co-PI Faculty Member, if any 0.12X
Norms for Research & Development Projects
Table 3: Calculation of Institute Overhead off the Total Consultancy Fee charged
Table 4: Utilisation of Institute Overheads collected from Consultancy Projects
4.3 Routine Testing Projects
Faculty Members may undertake routine testing tasks, which are required by the Industries
or other organizations for the performance evaluation or examination of specific products or 
materials. These Routine Testing Projects involve utilization of the Institute laboratory facilities. 
Institute does not allow to undertaking any certification work, unless certain facilities of the 
Institute are recognized by appropriate authority of the country for this purpose. The following 
points should be adhered to: 
(1) Only non-specialised equipment can be used in routine testing projects; 
(2) The testing may be done at standard fee estimated by the Faculty Member, who will supervise
the testing work, but pre-approved by the Institute. GST at the applicable rates should be 
received on this amount and paid to the Government of India;
(3) Institute Overheads are not deducted on Routine Testing Projects; and 
(4) After deducting GST, the balance amount shall be distributed as per the Table 5:
Table 5: Utilisation of Fee charged for Routine Testing Projects

S.No. Units of the Institute Share
1 Total Fee received after deducting GST X
2 Institute Overhead Account 0.50X
3 R&D Overhead Account 0.18X
4 IPR Processing Fund 0.02X
5 Professional Development Account (PDA) of PI Faculty Member 0.18X
6 Professional Development Account (PDA) of Co-PI Faculty Member, if any 0.12X
Norms for Research & Development Projects
4.4 Outreach Projects
Faculty Members can organise Conferences, Seminars, Workshop or Short Courses with
funds from outside agencies, after seeking due approval of the Director. The Office of R&D will 
facilitate the use of such funds received from external agencies. Faculty Members should open a 
Project Account in the Office of R&D, clearly indicating the purpose of the event being organised. If 
the funds are raised from the multiple funding agencies (e.g., governmental and non-governmental 
agencies), then sub-project needs to be created, under the umbrella of the same project account, 
clearly stating the expenditure heads in each sub-project.
The Institute Overhead shall be 20% of fund raised from external funding agencies. After
the event is completed, a Utilization Certificate duly issued by Office of R&D should be submitted, 
especially to the governmental funding agencies. After deducting GST, the balance amount shall be 
distributed as Table 6.
Table 6: Utilisation of Fee charged for Outreach Projects
4.5 Fellowship Projects
Faculty Members applying for a Fellowship shall submit a proposal to the Office of R&D
forwarded through the Head/Professor-in-Charge of the Department, Dean (Faculty) and Dean 
(Academics) with the academic clearances. The proposal shall indicate the various financial 
transactions of the amounts to be received as Fellowship. Only on receiving the endorsement of the 
Institute, the Faculty Member shall apply for the Fellowship. No Fellowship Project, whose 
proposal routed directly, without the knowledge of the Office of R&D, shall be registered at the 
Institute. 
 
 
4.6 Seed Grant Projects
The Institute supports newly joined young Faculty Members for initiating their research
work immediately on joining, with a sum of Rs. 25 Lakhs for Faculty Members. 
(1) The new Faculty Member shall submit a Seed Grant Proposal to Office of R&D within 02 years
from the date of joining the Institute;
(2) The new Faculty Member will present the proposal the Seed Grant Proposal Review Committee
consisting of: 
(a) Director; 
(b) Deputy Director; 
(c) Dean (Faculty); 
(d) Dean (R&D); 
(e) Heads/Professors-in-Charge of all Departments; and 
(f) Chairman, Center for Advanced Scientific Equipment.
(3) All Faculty Members, especially those in the domain of the proposal, are invited to the
presentation and encouraged to help the Faculty Member improve the proposal;

Norms for Research & Development Projects
(4) If the proposal is accepted in principle, suggestions made by the Seed Grant Proposal Review
Committee should be incorporated and the revised proposal submitted by the Faculty Member to 
the Office of R&D. On receiving the revised proposal, Dean (R&D) may recommend to the 
Director for approval of the funds for starting the Seed Grant Project; and
(5) After the approval is accorded by the Director, a Seed Grant Project account will be opened by
the Office of R&D, clearly stating the budget utilization under different heads, such as 
equipments, consumables and other necessary sections. The expenditure towards consumable 
and contingency shall not exceed 25% of the amount granted. No furniture items shall be 
purchased from the seed grant; the same will be provided by the Institute. And, no appointment 
shall be made of Project Staff Members in this Project.
(6) The PI of the Seed Grant Project shall mandatorily submit the Annual Report of the progress
made in the project.
(7) The duration of seed grant project will be for 3 years from the date of approval by the Director.
It is the responsibility of the PI to close the project immediately after 03 years. At the time of 
closing, the PI shall submit a detailed Technical Project Report to the Institute, and give a public 
Seminar at the Institute on the same.
4.7 Professional Development Account
A Professional Development Account (PDA) is created for each Faculty Member at the time
of joining the Institute. Amounts credited in PDA are those arising from the academic and professional 
activities of the Faculty Member, namely: 
(1) Part of Institute Overheads from Sponsored Research Projects; 
(2) Remuneration from JEE, GATE, JAM, JMET and other similar national examinations; 
(3) Amount transferred from Outreach Projects, if any; 
(4) Amount transferred from Consultancy Projects, if any, after meeting the expenditures; and 
(5) Any other income with the approval of Director.
The amount accrued in the PDA can be utilized for the following purposes:
(1) Purchase of equipment and furniture for furthering research activities of Faculty Members; 
(2) Travel (within the country or abroad) for research related meeting and conferences; 
(3) Conference related expenditures; 
(4) Purchase of books, journal subscriptions and professional membership; 
(5) Purchase of Teaching material and teaching aids; 
(6) Expenses related to promotion of professional activities, like purchase of printer cartridges; 
(7) Appointment of qualified Project Staff Members to assist in research activities; and 
(8) Any other expenditure with the approval of Director.
The PDA will be run as a R&D Project with the Faculty Member as the PI. Any purchase
using funds of PDA shall be made in accordance with rules laid down for Sponsored Research 
Projects. Any assets generated from the PDA are a property of the Institute.
Any unspent balance of PDA cannot be transferred to any other account or to another
Institute project. The PDA account cannot be operated by the Faculty Member, when he/she is on 
short leave, long leave, leave on Foreign Service Terms, Extra-Ordinary Leave, or Sabbatical Leave. 
When a Faculty Member is leaving the Institute, the balance amount in the PDA will be 
automatically transferred to Institute Overhead account.

Norms for Research & Development Projects
4.8 Institute Projects
Some of activities of the Institute are financially regulated, such as management of hostels,
healthcare services, automation, laboratory development, permanent campus development, and 
Undergraduate Research Initiative. For administering such activities and for precise book keeping of 
the expenses incurred for each of these activities, the Director may approve the operation of an 
Institute Project with the express purpose of meeting the specific need. The following points shall be 
borne in mind when implementing the Institute Projects: 
(1) The PI of the Institute Project shall be appointed by the Director. The PI shall seek the budget at
the start of each financial year, which shall be transferred from the Grant-in-aid;
(2) After the budget is approved, a new Institute Project account shall be opened by the Office of
(3) Any purchase or procurement made under the Institute Project shall be in accordance with the
norms of expenditure of the Institute applicable to the Grant-in-Aid;
(4) The wages of the manpower hired in Institute Projects should follow Institute norms; 
(5) The Office of R&D should provide to the Director quarterly Expenditure Statement of all Institute
Projects duly signed by respective PIs; and
(6) The PI of the Institute Project shall seek approval for additional budget, well before the available
fund is exhausted.
4.9 Utilization of Institute Overhead 
 
The Institute Overhead collected in the various projects is transferred to three accounts,
namely Institute Overhead Account, R&D Overhead Account and PDA of Faculty Members. The fund 
accruing in the Institute Overhead Account shall be utilised as per the needs of the Institute, and with 
the prior approval of the Director. The R&D Overhead Account shall be utilised for both recurring and 
non-recurring expenditure, including salary of the Project Staff Members, honorarium to regular Staff 
Members, travel of authorized personnel, with the prior approval by the Director.

Norms for Research & Development Projects
5. PROJECT APPOINTMENTS
Assisting the PI in the appointment of qualified temporary Project Staff Members for the
projects with vacant posts, is an important project management activity of the Office of R&D. The 
possible appointments, procedure for making the appointment and salaries payable therein, are 
elaborated hereunder.
5.1 Types of Project Appointments
Manpower can be hired for conducting R&D Projects under 5 categories, namely:
(1) Ad-hoc Appointment is said to be made when hiring manpower on ad-hoc basis for a maximum
period of 3 months by means of awarding a short term ad-hoc appointment against a vacant 
post or as one-time activity. The Adhoc appointment so made can be extended only for another 
3 months. No allowance will be admissible for adhoc appointment.
(2) Bridge Appointment is said to be made when a short term is being filled between expiry of old
term and a fresh appointment. This needs the prior approval of the Competent Authority. For this 
bridge period, the salary will be given on the basis of payment drawn in the last appointment.
(3) Project Appointment is said to be made when hiring qualified candidate(s) by giving wide
publicity through press, internet, etc., for a period beyond 3 months and extendable on an 
yearly basis on the recommendation of PI, for a maximum period of 5 years or till the duration 
of the project, whichever is earlier. The duration of 5 years includes terms held by the person in 
all previous appointments made at this Institute.
(4) Assistantship Appointment is said to be made when registered students of the Institute are given
short full-time appointments during summer and winter vacations of the Institute, or part-time 
appointments during the semester against the vacant post in the project.
(5) Daily Wager Manpower is said to be made when skilled, semi-skilled or unskilled personnel are
engaged through the Manpower Outsourcing Agency that the Institute is tied up with for 
provided such manpower.
5.2 Categories of Temporary Project Appointments 
 
Temporary Appointments can be made on projects for meeting the express needs of the
project. Such appointments can be along five streams, namely: 
(1) Scientific Cadre, 
(2) Technical Cadre, 
(3) Engineering Cadre, 
(4) Library Cadre, and 
(5) Administrative Cadre. 
Also, based on the academic qualifications and past work experience, these Temporary Project 
Appointments can made at five categories of salary, namely: 
(1) Category S, 
(2) Category A, 
(3) Category B, 
(4) Category C, and 
(5) Category D. 
These possible streams and categories are shown in Table 7 for Temporary Project Appointments.

S.No. Category Cadre
Scientific Technical Engineering Library Administrative
S1 Senior
Scientific Project Officer
S2 Scientific Project Officer
S3 Junior
Scientific Project Officer Senior Medical
Project Consultant
S4 Senior Project Scientist Medical Project
Consultant
A1 Project Scientist Junior Medical
Project Consultant
A2 Junior Project Scientist
A3 Senior Project Fellow Senior
Technical Project
Officer Project Officer
A4 Project Fellow Technical Project
Officer Assistant
Executive Project
Engineer Assistant Project
Officer
B1 Junior Project Fellow Technical Project
Superintendent Assistant Project
Engineer Library Project
Superintendent Project
Superintendent
B2 Junior
Technical Project
Superintendent Junior Project
Engineer Junior
Project Library
Superintendent Junior Project
Superintendent
C1 Technical Project
Assistant Library Project
Assistant Project Assistant
C2 Junior
Technical Project
Assistant Junior
Library Project
Assistant Junior
Project Assistant
D1 Senior
Project Student Assistant
D2 Project Student Assistant
D3 Junior
Project Student Assistant
Norms for Research & Development Projects
Table 7: Possible Streams and Categories of Temporary Project Appointments
5.3 Salary Structure for Temporary Project Appointments
The salary structure is as shown in Table 8 for the said appointments in the five categories of
Temporary Project Appointments. Applicable Income Tax shall be deducted, wherever necessary, 
before making payment to the Temporary Project Staff Member.

S.No. Category Qualifications Starting
Monthly
Salary
or
Payment
(Rs.) Annual
Increment
(Rs.)
Minimum Education Minimum
Experience in
the relevant
field after the
Qualifying
Degree
(Completed
Years) Maximum
Age at
Entry
(Years) on
last date of
application
S1 Ph.D. Degree with 1st Class in Masters
Degree ≥ 15 50 85,000 8,500
S2 Ph.D. Degree with 1st Class in Masters
Degree ≥ 10, < 15 75,000 7,500
S3 Ph.D. Degree with 1st Class in Masters
Degree ≥ 5, < 10 65,000 6,500
M.B.B.S. Degree ≥ 20
S4 Ph.D. Degree with 1st Class in Masters
Degree ≥ 2, < 5 53,100 5,300
M.B.B.S. Degree ≥ 15, < 20
A1 Ph.D. Degree with 1st Class in Masters
Degree < 2 45 44,300 4,400
M.B.B.S. Degree ≥ 10, < 15
A2 Ph.D. Degree with 1st Class in Masters
Degree 0 36,900 3,700
A3 M.Tech./M.E. Degree with 1st Class ≥ 4 31,500 3,200
Masters Degree with 1st Class ≥ 5
4-year Bachelors Degree with 1st Class ≥ 6
3-year Bachelors Degree with 1st Class ≥ 7
CA, ICWA or CS Certificate ≥ 5
A4 M.Tech./M.E. Degree with 1st Class 2 26,300 2,600
Masters Degree with 1st Class ≥ 3
4-year Bachelors Degree with 1st Class ≥ 4
3-year Bachelors Degree with 1st Class ≥ 5
CA, ICWA or CS Certificate ≥ 3
B1 M.Tech./M.E. Degree 0 35 20,900 2,100
Master Degree ≥ 1
4-year Bachelors Degree 2
3-year Bachelors Degree ≥ 3
3-year Diploma ≥ 4
2-year ITI Certificate ≥ 5
CA, ICWA or CS Certificate ≥ 1
B2 4-year Bachelor Degree 0 16,100 1,600
3-year Bachelors Degree ≥ 2
3-year Diploma ≥ 2
2-year ITI Certificate ≥ 3
CA, ICWA or CS Certificate 0
C1 3-year Bachelor Degree ≥ 1 35 13,200 1,300
3-year Diploma 0
2-year ITI Certificate ≥ 1
C2 3-year Bachelor Degree 0
2-year ITI Certificate 0 11,200 1,100
Norms for Research & Development Projects
Table 8: Qualifications and Pay for Temporary Project Appointments

D1 Ph.D. Student
:: Full-time appointment (40 hours/week) 5,000
Ph.D. Student
:: Part-time appointment (20 hours/week) 2,500
D2 M.Tech. Student
:: Full-time appointment (40 hours/week) 4,000
M.Tech. Student
:: Part-time appointment (20 hours/week) 2,000
D3 B.Tech. Student
:: Full-time appointment (40 hours/week) 3,000
B.Tech. Student
:: Part-time appointment (20 hours/week) 1,500
Norms for Research & Development Projects
The age limit mentioned above for the five categories of posts is not applicable to those
persons who have superannuated from Central Government services and from Autonomous Bodies 
fully supported by Central Government.
In particular, registered students of the Institute can be employed on projects on part-time
basis during the Semester or on full-time basis during the Vacations as Senior Project Student Assistant 
(SPSA), Project Student Assistant (PSA) or Junior Project Student Assistant (JPSA). The amount payable 
to each of them shall not exceed that mentioned in Table 8. The following are the Terms and 
Conditions for appointing such students as SPSA, PSA and JPSA: 
(1) The CGPA of the Student shall be at least 6.5/10. 
(2) Any engagement of a Student in the Project (either part-time or full time) shall not affect the
academic activity of the student. This shall be certified by the Faculty Advisor in case of Bachelors 
Students and by the Thesis Supervisor in case of Masters and Doctoral Students.
(3) It does not change the administrative status of the Student, i,e., a student engaged on a project
will be governed by the student status, for the purpose of leave, accommodation, house rent, etc.. 
Further, during the said project engagement, the student will continue to get any 
assistantship/scholarship that may be admissible otherwise.
(3) Such appointment of a Student shall be proposed by the PI in the prescribed format available
with the Office of R&D, and recommended by the Head/Professor-in-Charge of the Department to 
which the Student belongs. The application shall be sent to the Dean (R&D) through the Dean 
(Students) and the Dean (Academics); if neither the Dean (Students) nor the Dean (Academics) 
makes any adverse remark, the appointment shall be approved by the Dean (R&D).
(4) Students of other Institute cannot be appointed under this scheme.
5.4 Procedures for Temporary Project Appointments 
(a) Ad-hoc Appointments
The PI can hire the services of qualified candidate on Ad-hoc basis (through informal
selection) against vacant posts for a specific work pertaining to the project for a term up to a 
maximum of 3 months. The request for such appointments can be submitted to the Office of R&D in 
prescribed format along with CV with all the supporting documents, like mark-sheets and experience 
certificates.
(b) Project Appointments
The PI may forward a request in prescribed form for selecting persons for such
appointments against the vacant position(s). The PI is required to submit qualification(s) and 
experience for the vacant posts. The proposed qualification and experience can be higher, but not 
lower than the minimum qualifications laid down by the Institute (in Table 8) or by the Funding 
Agency. A Selection Committee will be constituted duly, with the approval of the Dean (R&D) or 
Director, as the case may be. An advertisement shall be published on the Institute website stating 
the required educational qualification, experience, etc. The advertisement shall mention clearly that 
the post is purely temporary and for specified limited period, strictly co-terminus with the project.

Norms for Research & Development Projects
The PI has two options for the Section:
(1) Walk-in Test and/or Interview
The PI can exercise this option, if only a limited number of candidates are expected to apply.
Under this option, on-the-spot written or skill test may be conducted to narrow down the 
number of candidates for the interview, if required.
(2) Shortlist followed by Written Test and / or Interview
This option can be adopted, if PI expects a large response by candidates and prior short-
listing is unavoidable.
The composition of the Selection Committees are as shown in Table 9 for interviewing short listed 
applicants received against vacant posts in the five categories of the Temporary Project 
Appointments.
The following are the additional notes on the above:
(1) For post sanctioned by the funding agency, but not covered in Table 7, the Director will approve
a Standing Selection Committee, on the recommendation of the Dean (R&D).
(2) All Members of the said Standing Selection Committee must be present during the interview. In
case of exigency, the Convener may seek to replace the Member, who is unable to attend, with 
another, with the written approval of the Director.
(3) The Chairman of the Selection Committee will ensure that any candidate who does not fulfill the
advertised qualification or experience is not interviewed or recommended for selection. The 
candidates appeared or appearing for final exams of the qualifying degree will not be 
considered, if their result is still awaited as on the last date of receipt of application. The 
candidates, not fulfilling the minimum advertised qualification, cannot be considered even for 
the lower post, if such lower position has not been advertised.
(4) The Chairman of the Selection Committee will ensure that, all the candidates, who come to attend
the interview, are interviewed properly by the Selection Committee.
(5) The Members of the Selection Committee should disassociate themselves completely from the
process of Selection, where their own close relatives are involved. No close relative of any 
Member of the Selection Committee should be appearing in the test/interview. In case, it is so, 
the concerned Member shall opt out for the entire Selection Committee, and another person be 
appointed in his place as Member, with the written approval of the Director.
(6) The scheduled Selection Committee meetings cannot be cancelled or rescheduled at short notice;
this will avoid inconvenience to candidates appearing in the interview, especially from outside 
the city of Jodhpur. In case of absence of Chairman or PI due to exigency, his/her nominee may 
be appointed with the written approval of the Director, to ensure smooth conduct of interviews 
as scheduled.
(7) The report of the Selection Committee duly recommended by the Dean (R&D) with applications
of candidate(s) selected and also considered for appointment under the project, shall be placed 
before the Director for approval.
(8) After, obtaining approval of the Director, the Office of R&D will issue the Offer of Appointment to
the selected candidate(s).

S.No. Category Chairman Members
S1 Director or Nominee of Director
for Scientific Cadre (1) Dean (R&D)
(2) Head/Professor-in-Charge of the concerned
Department
(3) 1 Faculty Member from concerned Department
(4) Project Investigator
A1 Director or Nominee of Director
for Engineering and Administrative Cadres
Dean (R&D)
for Scientific and Technical Cadres (1) Head/Professor-in-Charge of the concerned
Department
for Scientific and Technical Cadres
(2) 1 Faculty Member from concerned Department
(3) 1 Faculty Member from a Department other than
that of the PI
(4) Project Investigator
B1 Director or Nominee of Director
for Engineering and Library Cadres
Dean (R&D)
for Scientific and Administrative Cadres
Head/Professor-in-Charge of Department
for Technical Cadre (1) Dean (R&D) for Engineering and Library Cadres
(2) Head/Professor-in-Charge of the concerned
Department
for Scientific and Administrative Cadres
(3) 1 Faculty Member from concerned Department
(4) 1 Faculty Member from a Department other than
that of the PI
(5) Project Investigator
B2 Director or Nominee of Director
for Engineering and Library Cadres
Dean (R&D)
for Administrative Cadre
Head/Professor-in-Charge of Department
for Technical Cadre (1) Dean (R&D) for Engineering and Library Cadres
(2) 1 Head of Department
for Administrative Cadre
(3) 1 Faculty Member from concerned Department
(4) 1 Faculty Member from a Department other than
that of the PI
(5) Project Investigator
C1 Dean (R&D)
for Library and Administrative Cadres
Head/Professor-in-Charge of Department
for Technical Cadre (1) 1 Head of Department
for Library and Administrative Cadres
(2) 1 Faculty Member from concerned Department
(3) 1 Faculty Member from a Department other than
that of the PI
(4) Project Investigator
D1 Head/Professor-in-Charge of Department
for Technical Cadre (1) 1 Faculty Member from concerned Department
(2) 1 Faculty Member from a Department other than
that of the PI
(3) Project Investigator
Norms for Research & Development Projects
Table 9: Composition of Selection Committee for Temporary Project Appointments

S.No. Post Minimum Qualification
1 Junior Research Fellow
(JRF) M.Sc., B.E., B.Tech. or B. Pharm. degree or equivalent
2 Senior Research Fellow
(SRF) M.Tech., M.E., or M.Pharm. degree or equivalent
OR
M.Sc., B.Tech. or B.E. degree or equivalent with 2 years relevant experience
3 Research Associate
(RA) Ph.D. or M.D. degree or equivalent
OR
M.Tech., M.E. or M.Pharm. degree or equivalent with 2 years relevant experience
4 Post Doctoral Fellow
(PDF) Defended the Ph.D. Thesis, whether or not received the Ph.D. degree
Norms for Research & Development Projects
(c) Appointment of Junior Research Fellows, Senior Research Fellows, Research Associates
and Post-Doctoral Fellows
Some funding agencies require the appointment of Junior Research Fellows (JRFs), Senior
Research Fellows (SRFs), Research Associates (RAs) and/or Post-Doctoral Fellows. In such cases, the 
following shall apply: 
(1) The JRF, SRF, RA or PDF should have qualified in NET or GATE. The minimum qualifications
for these posts are as given in Table 10.
(2) If funding agency does not have any provision on payment of salary, then norms applicable will
be those employed by the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India,.
(3) The Institute may provide hostel accommodation to JRF, SRF or RA, if accommodation is
available in the Student Hostels; and, those persons, residing in accommodation provided by 
the Institute, will not be eligible for any House Rent Allowance (HRA). When hostel 
accommodation is not available, the HRA may be paid to the JRF, SRF, RA or PDF as per the 
norms of the Funding Agency. When the Funding Agency is silent on the matter, no HRA will 
be paid.
(4) A JRF, SRF, RA or PDF is eligible for 30 days annual leave per year, in addition to 8 casual leave
during a calendar year, and no other leave is admissible. Participation in any scientific event in 
India or aboard will be treated as on duty.
Table 10: Minimum Qualification for following Temporary Project Appointments
(d) Others Terms and Conditions for Temporary Project Appointments 
 
All temporary project appointments at the Institute shall be bound by the following
additional Terms and Conditions: 
(1) All appointments shall be on contract of one year or less, in case the tenure of the project is lesser
than a year. Also, in case the project is terminated by the Funding Agency before the stipulated 
duration of the project for any reason whatsoever, the Project Appointment shall remain 
terminated with the closure of the Project. All appointments are against the temporary project 
post, and will not continue under any circumstance beyond the duration of the said project. Any 
subsequent contract in the project or another project will be fresh appointment. The 
appointment in the outside funded project does not give Project Staff Members any claim 
whatsoever for appointment or regularization at the Institute against any regular post of the 
Institute.
(2) All Project Staff Members need to sign at the time of the joining a contract agreement with
Institute on Rs. 500 (or as amended by Government time to time) Non-Judicial Stamp Paper in the 
format provided by the Office of R&D. The first salary will be released only after the signing of 
the said agreement. In case, any Project Staff Member does not sign the contract agreement 
within 15 days from the date of joining, the appointment shall stand cancelled.
(3) Salary and other allowances of the selected candidate will be fixed only at the entry level of the
post. No advance increments are payable at the entry level. Also, no additional perks are 
payable to any Temporary Project Staff Member.

Norms for Research & Development Projects
(4) Intellectual Property Rights
(a) Temporary Project Staff Members appointed in a project will be required to work under the
supervision of the Project Investigator of the project. The outcome of any research or 
Technology under the project is the property of the Project, and is bound by the prevailing 
IPR Policy of the Institute and agency sponsoring the project. Any outcome from the project 
can only be disclosed to the public domain (like publishing an journal article) only with the 
prior written approval of the Project Investigator and with due acknowledgement of the 
sponsors of the project.
(b) On completing the term of appointment, the Temporary Project Staff Member shall return to
the Project Investigator all documents relating to the project.
(5) At the time of the extension of the service of the Project Staff Members, the PI can recommend
one increment after completion of one year service. Extension of the service and increment is 
admissible only when the project is valid and the sufficient fund is available.
(6) Extension of service can be given up to a maximum of one year at a time. The maximum length
of service for a project employee cannot exceed five years, including all previous Projects 
appointments made through the Office of R&D of the Institute, whether in the same or any 
other Project.
(7) No promotion will be given to the temporary Project Staff Member. 
(8) In case a Temporary Project Staff Member needs to be migrated from one project to another,
without following the fresh selection process, the PI shall furnish valid reasons and justification 
for proposing such migration. In such cases, the Project Personal File Number of the Temporary 
Project Staff Member shall remain the same.
(9) House Rent Allowance: Consolidated salary offered for the project post is inclusive of all
components of the salary. No additional HRA is payable under any project, including the 
Institute Projects. But, if the sponsoring agency provides funds for the same and it is 
recommended by the PI that HRA be paid to the Temporary Project Staff Member, then HRA can 
be given to the Project Staff Members as per directions of the Funding Agency. In the absence of 
the funding agency not providing any norms, the prevalent Government of India norms are 
admissible. In any case, the HRA is payable, only if the Temporary Project Staff Member stays 
outside the campus. The Project Staff Member shall submit the request, duly forwarded and 
recommended by PI of the project for the reimbursement of rent paid for accommodation, in the 
prescribed form as available with Office of R&D. In general, the Institute will not provide any 
accommodation to the Temporary Project Staff Member. But, if Institute provides accommodation 
to any of them in the Students’ Hostels, then: 
(a) A fixed rate (as decided by the Institute from time to time) will be charged as Hostel
(b) The Temporary Project Staff Members will not be paid any HRA, if any, and the HRA
component admissible to the Temporary Project Staff Members from the funding agency, will 
be deducted from the Project Account and will be credited to the Institute Account.
(10) Medical Facilities: ONLY routine OPD medical facility shall be provided only to the Temporary
Project Staff Member at the on-campus Primary Health Centre of the Institute, without any 
reimbursement of cost of medicines. No other family member or dependant can avail this 
facility. A medical booklet shall be provided to each Project employee by the Office of R&D at 
the time of joining, which has to be produced to the Staff Members at the Health Centre when 
obtaining medical treatment and the same returned on completion of term, resignation or 
termination.
(11) Termination of Service: During the period of project appointment, the Temporary Project Staff
Member is liable to be terminated with one month’s notice, or on payment of one month salary 
in lieu thereof. On the other hand, the Temporary Project Staff Member can resign from the 
position by giving one month notice or surrendering the salary due in lieu of the notice period 
of one month. In extreme cases of unacceptable conduct of the Temporary Project Staff Member, 
the person can be terminated with no notice; this will require the approval of the Director, on 
the recommendation of the Dean (R&D).

Norms for Research & Development Projects
(12) Leave Entitlement: A Temporary Project Staff Member is eligible for 30 days annual leave per year
(credited at 2.5 days per month of service rendered), in addition to 8 casual leaves during a 
calendar year (credited at 2 days per 3 months of service rendered), and no other leave is 
admissible. Participation in any scientific event in India or aboard will be treated as on duty. 
Leaves taken beyond the above with the recommendation of the PI and approval of the 
Competent Authority shall be at no pay up to a maximum of 30 days; absence beyond this 
period shall be treated as discontinuation of service, and the PI may appoint a new person for 
the post through the process of Selection Committee. Further, no encashment or carry forward 
is permissible of the unutilized leave at the time of termination, completion of project, renewal 
of contract of the appointment, or at the end of the calendar year.
5.5 Engagement of Skilled, Semi-skilled and Unskilled Personnel through Manpower
Outsourcing Agency
To carry out miscellaneous tasks required for the projects, the PI can engage Skilled, Semi-
skilled or Unskilled manpower on daily basis through Outsourcing Manpower Agency, subject to 
the minimum wages as approved by the Government of India (http://clc.gov.in), as applicable to 
Karwad, Jodhpur District. In such cases, the following procedure shall be followed: 
(1) The PI shall take prior approval of Dean (R&D) for engaging Skilled, Semi-skilled or Unskilled
(2) After getting the approval, the PI shall request to the Office of Infrastructure Management for
providing the required personnel through the Manpower Outsourcing Agency that the Institute is 
engaged with for this purpose; and
(3) The PI shall verify the attendance of the engaged personnel for making monthly payments of
remuneration. The PI shall provide this information as per the schedule shared by the Office of 
Infrastructure Management.
(4) No person can be engaged simultaneously in more than one Project.

S.No. Category of
Appointment Mode of Travel Permissible Admissible
Maximum Hotel
Tariff per day
against
submission of
Original Bill
(Rs.) Admissible
Food
Allowance
per day
(Rs.) Admissible
Local
Conveyance
per day
(Rs.)
1 S1, S2, S3 and S4
A1 Rail by AC 2-Tier, or Road 4,500 1,000 500
2 A2, A3, and A4 Rail by AC 2-Tier, or Road 2,250 900 350
3 B1 and B2 Rail by AC 3-Tier, or Road 1,000 800 250
4 C1 and C2
D1, D2 and D3 Rail by AC 3-Tier, or Road 750 500 150
Norms for Research & Development Projects
6. PROJECT EXPENDITURE
All expenditure from R&D Projects shall be made in accordance with GFR 2017, unless
otherwise approved by the Competent Authority. 
 
6.1 Project Travel 
 
The PI and others associated with a project can travel for work related to the project to
places within or outside the country, and pay for the travel expenses through the funds available in 
the project. This is subject to availability of funds under budget head Travel of the project. A 
Temporary Project Staff Member wishing to undertake such travel shall take a prior approval from the 
Competent Authority on the recommendation of the PI. The Temporary Project Staff Member can 
draw an advance, if required. The travel entitlement of each Temporary Project Staff Member is shown 
in Table 11. 
 
 
In case expenditure other than those listed in Table 11 is necessary for the purpose of
meeting the objectives of the project, the norms adopted by the Institute for a person at an 
analogous post, for such expenditure will be adopted; this will require the written approval of the 
Director on the recommendation of the Dean (R&D).
On completing the journey, the Temporary Project Staff Member who undertook the travel
6.2 Project Temporary Advance 
 
To carry out miscellaneous expenditures required for the projects, the PI can use the funds
from the project and take a temporary advance for the same. Advance can be taken from various 
budget heads, like Contingency, Consumables and Travel. For availing this, the PI will submit the 
request in the prescribed format. The PI may take an advance in the name regular Institute 
employee. Not more than 4 advances will be sanctioned from one project at a time, and that too 
only one advance in the name of a person. 
 
 
All the advances taken shall be settled within the 15 days from the date of the completion of
the activity and purpose for which the advance was taken. A Statement of Expenditure shall be 
submitted by the PI in the prescribed format with all the original bills duly verified by the PI. The PI 
shall ensure that all bills are properly entered in Project Stock Register; non-consumables item(s) 
shall be entered in the Assets Register in the Office of Stores & Purchase of the Institute, else bills will 
not be passed for the payment.

Chairman Members
Chairman
Center for Advanced Scientific
Equipment (1) 1 Faculty Member in relevant field of the purchase
(2) 1 Specialist working in area of research relevant to
purchase, if estimated cost of the equipment is
Rs.1Crore or more
(3) PI of the Project
Norms for Research & Development Projects
6.3 Project Procurement 
 
All items purchased under a project are property of the Institute, though they are to be used
primarily for the Project during the term of the Project. They are to be purchased in accordance with 
GFR 2017 adopted by the Institute. After the project terminated or completed, these Assets remain 
with the Institute, unless a specific requirement is raised for returning the same to the funding 
agency. Consequently, each item purchased will be recorded in the Assets Register. The value of all 
Permanent Assets will be depreciated as per the Institute norms. 
 
 
The PI will verify the original bill and cash memos, and submit in the prescribed format in
the Office of R&D for payment or reimbursement. PI will ensure that all the bills are properly 
entered in Stock Register. Non-consumables item(s) must be entered in the Assets Register of the 
Office of Stores & Purchase, else the bills will not be passed for the payment. 
 
 
For the purchase high-end or costly equipment, a Technical Purchase Committee (TPC) shall be
constituted to assess the technical aspects of the equipment and their installation. The composition 
of the TPC is given in Table 12. The responsibilities of the TPC are: 
(1) Finalizing the most suitable generic technical requirement of the purchase to meet the objectives
of the project;
(2) Drafting technical specification of the equipment to be purchased; 
(3) Providing technical assistance during the Tender Process; and 
(4) Evaluating technical specifications, after Tenders are opened. 
The PI shall seek the approval of the Director for constituting the TPC, through the Dean (R&D). 
After approval is accorded by the Director, the PI will inform the Members of the TPC of their roles 
and responsibilities. 
 
 
Table 12: Composition of the Technical Purchase Committee

Norms for Research & Development Projects
7. PROJECT BUDGET 
7.1 Research Projects 
 
The total charges of a Research project will consist of the Institute Overhead, and actual
expenses of the project meeting the following: 
(1) Purchase of manufactured equipment, or fabricated equipment or models; 
(2) Purchase of consumable materials; 
(3) Meeting travel expenses in connection with the project work (national, and international, if
budgeted in the proposal and allowed by funding agency);
(4) Making payments for computational or other activities payable to any agency outside the
(5) All contingency expenses for purchase of literature (books, journals), preparation of reports,
and any other item budgeted in the proposal and approved by the funding agency;
(6) Expenses for work to be carried out on payment basis, remuneration to student assistants; and 
(7) Insurance on equipment and manpower during travel.
7.2 Consultancy Projects 
 
The total agreed charges of a Consultancy Project will consist of the Institute Overhead,
actual expenses and the remuneration to be distributed to the Faculty Members and Staff Members. 
The actual expenses should cover the following costs related to the project: 
(1) Permanent equipment to be procured or fabricated equipment or models; 
(2) Consumable materials; 
(3) Travel expenses in connection with the project work; 
(4) Computational or other charges the PI may have to pay to the Institute or any agency outside
the Institute during the course of the execution of the work;
(5) Charges to be paid for the use of specific equipment in the Departments or Central Facilities; 
(6) Contingency expenses to cover cost of supplies, preparation of report, typing, word processing,
drawing, drafting, stationery, reproduction, literature (books, journals, membership fee for 
professional societies), postage, courier, FAX and telephone (including rental and STD or 
ISD call bills of telephone at residence or mobile phones); cost of insurance of personnel or 
equipment being used for the project and medical reimbursement on duty (excluding major 
ailments) for Staff Members, etc.;
(7) Expenses for work to be carried out on payment basis, and remuneration to student assistants; 
(8) Insurance on equipment and manpower during travel; and 
(9) Any other cost considered appropriate. 
The GST will be applicable as per government rules.
The approval of the Dean (R&D) is essential to make any expenditure from the project
funds, assuming that funds are available in the project for the purpose.

Chairman Members
Dean (R&D) (1) Chairman, Center for Advanced Scientific Equipment
(2) Head/Professor-in-Charge of the concerned Department
(2) 1 Faculty Member in relevant field
(3) 1 Specialist from outside the Institute in relevant field, if required, or a
representative of the funding agency
(4) PI of the Project
Norms for Research & Development Projects
8. PROJECT MONITORING 
 
For large projects, a Project Monitoring Committee (PMC) shall be constituted to review and
assess the progress of the project periodically (at least once a year) towards ensuring timely 
completion of such projects. The Committee may advice Dean (R&D) on any matter related to the 
project. The composition of Project Monitoring Committee shall be as given in Table 13. The Director 
is the Competent Authority to constitute or approve the PMC. 
 
 
Table 12: Composition of the Project Monitoring Committee
8.1 Disagreement or Disputes 
 
Any disagreement within the Institute arising at any stage of a Consultancy Project will be
resolved in consultation with Dean (R&D) or Director, to ensure an expeditious removal of 
bottlenecks and smooth functioning of the project. 
 
 
In case of any dispute arising between Investigator(s) and funding agency(s) at any stage of
Consultancy Project, only the Project Investigator and Project Co-Investigators(s) will be responsible 
for settlement of the dispute. The Institute holds no liability in any matter of dispute arising out of 
the project. All legal action will be subject to jurisdiction at Civil Courts at Jodhpur, Rajasthan only. 
 
 
8.2 Arbitration 
 
In the event of any dispute or difference at any time arising between the parties relating to
Consultancy Project, or any other clause(s) or any content of the right and liabilities of the parties or 
other matters specified therein or with reference to anything arising out of the Consultancy 
otherwise in relation to the terms, whether during the Consultancy or thereafter, such disputes or 
differences shall be resolved by mutual negotiations. If such negotiations are infructuous, the 
dispute should be finally settled through Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 by three arbitrators 
appointed in accordance with the said Act. The arbitrators shall give reasoned and speaking award. 
 
 
8.3 Limited Liability 
 
In case, any legal dispute arises between the Investigator(s) and the funding agency, such
that the Investigator(s) are in any way held responsible to make good the losses incurred by the 
funding agency, such liability will be restricted to a Maximum liability calculated as follows:
Maximum Liability 
= Total Fee Charged for the Project – Expenditure already incurred in the Project
The PI shall be responsible to bring this fact to the notice of the funding agency.

Norms for Research & Development Projects
9. MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING (MoU) 
 
The Institute recognizes collaborations are necessary at inter-departmental and inter-
institutional levels, within India and abroad. For this, the Institute may need to sign Memoranda of 
Understanding, Contracts or Agreements with the Indian as well as the international academic or 
research institutions and industries, to strengthen its collaborative technology development efforts. 
While getting into these agreements with agencies, laboratories, organizations and companies, the 
document prepared needs to be checked to be in right language. It carries legal weight and can be 
very important under certain circumstances. 
 
 
Some of the important points to be addressed in the MoU are:
(1) Intellectual Property Rights: The Institute should try to keep its rights intact as far as possible. The
Institute must protect its right to use the information generated from our research at any point 
in the future without having to seek permission in case IPR is owned by other party. The 
developer should have the right to publish the paper.
(2) Developer, Coordinator or Project Investigator: MoU should carry the name of the developer, who
will accomplish the goals of the project. He/she is responsible for the execution of the project.
(3) Deliverables: The wording of this section is most crucial in the text of the MoU. Accuracy is
paramount. The timeline should be attainable. Deliverables should be clearly mentioned as an 
article/clause of the Agreement or as an annexure. Statement of Work and dates of milestones 
to be achieved are spelt out. A full project proposal may be attached for completeness.
(4) Overheads and Taxes: Budget should be inclusive of Institute overheads as per rules and GST (if
applicable). Budget should be annexed to the Agreement. There should be some initial payment 
(say 25%) to start the Project.
(5) Conflict Resolution: The MoU should stipulate the jurisdiction of the local courts (including New
Delhi). This is an important point for international MOUs. The agreement will be governed by 
the Indian Laws. Applicability of foreign laws for dispute resolution is not allowed. Alternately, 
dispute may be referred for Arbitration under the provisions of: 
(a) The Arbitration & Conciliation Act, 1996, or any statutory modification/re-enactment thereof
and rules made there-under; and
(b) The Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce, or the Arbitration Rules of the
United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL).
The place of arbitration for domestic will be Jodhpur and for International will be New Delhi 
(India). Alternately, in case a party files a complaint (Plaintiff), the Defendant (against whom a 
claim or charge is brought) will have choice to designate the place of arbitration. 
(a) Confidentiality: The PI and Team Members shall be responsible for non-disclosure of
confidential information. Perpetual non-disclosure of confidential information should be 
avoided as far as possible.
(b) Technology Transfer Agreement
(1) The agreement should give reference of the technology to be transferred (in terms of
(2) Any information, materials, services, intellectual property, other property or rights,
granted or provided by IIT Jodhpur pursuant to this agreement are on an as-is-where-is 
basis;
(3) IIT Jodhpur does not make any warranty of any kind, either express or implied, as to any
matter including, but not limited to, warranty of fitness for particular purpose, or 
merchantability, exclusivity or results obtained from use;
(4) IIT Jodhpur cannot give warranty of successful exploitation of the technology; 
(5) In case, the other party transfers or assigns IPR acquired in technology transfer
agreement developed by IIT Jodhpur, or transfers or sells IPR or product developed 
based on the technology during any project to any third party, the above clauses will 
also be applicable to third party;
(6) Technology transfer agreement will be a standalone agreement. Any further
development for manufacturing the product or commercialization of the technology will 
be governed by a separate service or consultancy agreement;

Norms for Research & Development Projects
(7) Any penalty or security deposit clause is not acceptable; 
(8) IIT Jodhpur shall not bear any charges for the transfer of assets or technology; and 
(9) Equipment purchased out of the project funds will be owned by the Institute and will
not be returned to the funding agency.
When a MoU is clear from all angles and acceptable to both the parties, it shall be sent to the
Director for approval along with a summary of the MoU, duly signed by PI, forwarded by Dean 
(R&D). After approval, the same may be signed by the Authorized Signatories along with witness. A 
copy of MoU signed by both the parties shall be kept in records at Office of R&D, and placed before 
the Board of Governors at the next meeting.

S.No. Post in Previous Norms Category of Post
in Revised Norms Designation of Post
in Revised Norms
1 Medical Consultant S4 Medical Project Consultant
2 Project Manager A4 Assistant Project Officer
3 Deputy Project Manager B1 Project Superintendent
4 Project Associate B2 Junior Technical Project
Superintendent
5 Assistant Project Manager B2 Junior Project Superintendent
6 Project Technician C1 Technical Project Assistant
7 Project Assistant C2 Junior Project Assistant
Norms for Research & Development Projects
10. IMPLEMENTATION OF REVISED NORMS 
 
These revised norms will be valid from the date of notification of the decision of the Board of
Governors. Further: 
(1) No arrears will be paid; 
(2) Existing Temporary Project Staff Members will be placed at the start of the scale in the appropriate
Category and given the same number of increments that they have received so far.
(3) HRA, Transport Allowance and any other perquisite will not be paid hereinafter. The revised
initial pay has been arrived at considering both of these.
(4) The following is the mapping of the existing Temporary Project Staff Members in the Categories of
the revised Norms for R&D Projects: