SOURCE_PDF: 5936b0f49147_MTech_New_REVISED_13Feb2017.pdf

Regulations for M.Tech. Programs
July 2014
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Contents
Description 
Page
1. 
Introduction 
3
2. 
Academic Session 
3
2.1 Academic Calendar 
3
3. 
Admissions 
4
3.1 Eligibility for Admission 
4
3.2 Selection Procedure 
4
3.3 Supervisor Allocation 
5
3.4 Reservation Policy 
5
3.5 Non-degree Program 
5
3.6 Cancellation of Admission 
6
3.7 Fulfillment of Admission Requirements 
6
4. 
Coursework Requirements 
7
4.1 Academic Load 
7
4.2 Registration 
7
4.3 Registration Procedure 
7
4.4 Late Registration 
8
4.5 Adding and Dropping of Courses 
8
4.6 Withdrawing from a Course 
8
4.7 Minimum Credit Requirements 
8
5. 
Teaching and Evaluation 
9
5.1 Teaching 
9
5.2 Attendance Requirements 
10
5.3 Evaluation 
10
5.4 Grading System 
11
5.5 Grade Point Averages 
13
5.6 Grade Card and Transcript 
13
6. 
Termination 
13
6.1 Termination from M. Tech. Program 
13
6.2 Appeal against Termination 
14
7. 
Leave 
14
7.1 Short Leave 
14
7.2 Temporary Withdrawal / Semester Leave 
14
7.3Permission to Proceed to other Institutions 
15

8. 
Requirements for Graduation 
16
8.1 Minimum Duration of Residence 
16
8.2 Academic 
17
8.3 Payment of Fees and Dues 
17
8.4 No case of Disciplinary Action 
17
8.5 Award of Degrees 
17
8.6 Withdrawal of Degree 
17
9. 
Financial Assistance 
18
10. Amendments 
18

S. No. Segment of the Year Duration
1 Semester 1 Fourth week of July – Last week of November
2 Winter Vacation First week of December – Third week of December
3 Semester 2 Last week of December – Last week of April
4 Summer Vacation First week of May – Third week of July
1. INTRODUCTION
The aim of the M.Tech. Program is to develop graduates having
good knowledge and research training in emerging areas of technology 
and science. IIT Jodhpur hosts Master’s Program in three domains (till July 
2014), namely 
(1) M.Tech. (Energy), 
(2) M.Tech. (Information and Communication Technologies), and 
(3) M.Tech. (System Science). 
 
From July 2015, IIT Jodhpur will host two M.Tech. programs in classical 
disciplines, namely 
(1) M.Tech. (Electrical Engineering), and 
(2) M.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering).
The M.Tech. Program is based on three tenets of (1) Semester
System, (2) Credit System, and (3) Relative Grading. The program is for 22 
months; the assistantship will stop at the end of the said duration. This 
document sets out the procedures and requirements of the said 
postgraduate Programs of study at IIT Jodhpur. The M.Tech. program will 
be administered by a duly constituted Academic Committee (AC), through 
the office of Academics. 
 
 
2. ACADEMIC SESSION 
 
Each academic year (July to June) consists of two academic
semesters. Each semester is for about sixteen (16) weeks with one week of 
recess for students, making it about 15 working weeks in each semester. 
Excluding the days of the examinations, the total number of days of 
instruction in a semester is at least 70. Normal schedule of these semesters 
is given in Table 1.
Table 1: Schedule of the Academic Session

Qualifying Degree Marks obtained in Qualifying Other Requirements
B.Tech., B.E. or B.Sc.
(Engineering) At least 60% marks or at least
6.5/10 Cumulative Performance
Index (CPI) or Cumulative Grade
Point Average (CGPA) Valid GATE score
M.Sc. in Sciences At least 70% marks or at least
7/10 Cumulative Performance
Index (CPI) or Cumulative Grade
Point Average (CGPA) Valid GATE score
B.Tech. from any of the IITs CPI or CGPA 8/10 or above The requirement of
valid GATE score is
exempted
2.1 Academic Calendar
It gives the exact dates of all important events during the
Academic Session, such as orientation, registration, commencement of 
classes, adding and dropping of courses, submission of documents, 
examinations, submission of grades, conversion of Incomplete I-grades, 
vacation, mid-semester recess. This calendar shall be approved by the 
Senate.
3. ADMISSIONS
The process of admission to the M.Tech. Programs offered by the
Institute normally is underway during March-April for Semester 1 and 
during November-December for Semester 2.
3.1 Eligibility for Admission 
 
The eligibility criteria prescribed below in Table 2 are the absolute
Table 2: Minimum Eligibility Criteria
3.2 Selection Procedure
The Academic Committee shortlists applicants with a proven
academic record based on a cut-off of the GATE, CSIR or UGC score card or 
equivalent. The shortlisted applicants will be called for the written 
examination and/or interview. Admission will be made based on technical 
performance at the written examination and/or interview.
The Institute shall call the shortlisted candidates for written
examination and/or interview to a Selection Committee consisting of 
Faculty Members associated with that particular Centre/or discipline.

Based on the technical performance of the candidate in the written 
examination and/or interview in addition to her/his academic record, the 
Selection Committee will recommend to the Chairman, Senate, names of 
candidates found suitable for admission to the M.Tech. Program. 
 
 
All applicants, who are offered admission, will be informed by
eMail within a week of the interview process. Candidates whose selection 
is approved by the Chairman, Senate, will be admitted to the M.Tech. 
Program at IIT Jodhpur after paying the prescribed fee for the Program. 
 
3.3 Supervisor Allocation
Students admitted to the M.Tech. Program, shall be allocated a
Supervisor during the second Semester of their program at IIT Jodhpur. 
The Supervisor identification will be based on the research interest of the 
student and the availability of a faculty member willing to supervise such a 
work. 
 
3.4 Reservation Policy
The norms of reservation for different categories shall be adopted
as laid down by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government 
of India.
3.5 Non-degree Program
A non-degree student is a student who is registered for a degree in
a recognized Institute or a University in India or abroad, and who is 
officially sponsored by that Institute or University to complete a part of 
her/his academic programme at IIT Jodhpur. For that purpose, the non-
degree student may carry out research, take courses for credit or 
otherwise, and/or may use other academic facilities. An official transcript 
of work done at the Institute along with grades obtained, if any, would be 
given to the non-degree student concerned for her/his use as she/he may 
deem appropriate. But, any credits earned at the Institute, by a non-degree 
student, cannot be applied for any degree program of IIT Jodhpur at any 
time thereafter. A person can be admitted as a non-degree student on a 
duly sponsored application to the Coordinator (Academics – PG Programs), 
who will recommend admission on the advice of AC to the Chairman, 
Senate, for approval. A non-degree student may be admitted for a 
maximum period of one year. The strength of non-degree students in any 
programme should not be more than 25% of the program strength. A non-

degree student will be required to pay all applicable fees depending upon 
the status, programme, and nationality. Such students will be governed by 
all rules, regulations and discipline applicable to regular students of the 
Institute.
3.6 Cancellation of Admission
Students admitted provisionally or otherwise to any programme
shall submit copies of their mark sheets, provisional certificates, etc. of the 
qualifying examination and other documents by the last date specified for 
the purpose in the Academic Calendar. The Senate reserves the right to 
cancel the admission of any student, if 
(a) she/he fails to submit the prescribed documents demonstrating her/his
minimum academic qualification for admission, by the specified date or to 
meet other stipulated requirement(s); and
(b) it is found (at any time later) that the student had provided some false
information or suppressed relevant information while seeking admission.
3.7 Fulfilment of Admission Requirements 
 
Admission to M.Tech. Programs requires that the applicant be
eligible, go through the laid-down admission procedure, and pay the 
prescribed fees. All admissions to the M.Tech. Programs should be formally 
approved by the Senate. 
(a) Course Work
M.Tech. students are required to undergo coursework at the Institute, 
offered either by the Department with which the M.Tech. student is 
associated or by any other Department (in case of Electives). An 
M.Tech. student is required to complete a minimum of 60 credits of 
which at least 30 credits will be through coursework of Post Graduate 
level over first two semesters and 30 credits will be through their 
Thesis work over the last two semesters.
(b) Thesis Submission
After completing the coursework, M.Tech. students will be
involved in one year of active research towards their M.Tech. Thesis. 
The Thesis Examination shall be coordinated by the Supervisor and at 
least two other Faculty Members from the Institute nominated by the 
Supervisor and approved by the Coordinator (Academics). The 
Supervisor will be solely responsible for submitting the grades of 
her/his M.Tech. student’s Thesis. The M.Tech. Thesis work is awarded

only Satisfactory (S) or Unsatisfactory (X) grades. These grades do not 
affect the calculation of CGPA/SGPA.
The normal duration of the M.Tech. program and the duration
for which the assistantship will be paid is 22 months. In exceptional 
cases, the Academic Committee (AC) can extend the date of 
submission of the Thesis by up to 2 months.
4. COURSEWORK REQUIREMENTS 
4.1 Academic Load
Each course is given a weightage called credits. The number of
credits of each course is based on the number of contact hours for 
lectures, tutorials, and practicals. A typical PG course is of 3-4 credits. 
Credits will be assigned to the courses based on the following general 
pattern: 
(a) One credit for each lecture class of 50 minutes; 
(b) One credit for each tutorial class of 50 minutes; and 
(c) One credit for each laboratory or practical class of three hours. 
 
4.2 Registration
Students are required to register each semester for the courses as
per the programme, on the dates specified in the Academic Calendar. After 
the successful completion of the required courses, a M.Tech. student must 
continue to register in the following semester till she/he submits her/his 
Thesis. 
 
4.3 Registration Procedure
A list of courses to be offered in the next semester will be announced
online by the AC. Students shall pre-register for courses. The registration 
procedure involves the following: 
(a) Online filling of the registration form with courses proposed to be
credited in the semester;
(b) Payment of fees and clearance of outstanding dues (if any); and 
(c) Signing of the registration roll at the office of the Head of Department
hosting the M.Tech. Program. 
 
A fresh student joining the Institute, who is awaiting the final results of
the qualifying examination, is allowed to register provisionally on

submission of a certificate from her/his last Institute stating that she/he 
has appeared in the final examination of the qualifying degree. The 
student is required to submit documents of having passed the qualifying 
examination by the last date given in the Academic Calendar for the 
registration to be regularized. 
 
4.4 Late Registration
If for any compelling reason, like illness, a student is unable to
register on the day of registration, she/he can register before the late 
registration date of registration specified in the academic calendar. If a 
student seeks prior permission to register late on other valid grounds, 
Chairman, AC, may allow late registration. Beyond the date of late 
registration, no student will be allowed to register. In special cases, the 
final decision will rest with the Senate. 
 
4.5 Adding and Dropping of Courses
A student may add or drop course(s) within one week of the
beginning of the semester or the last date(s) specified in the Academic 
Calendar. For this, the student must fill the appropriate form, get it 
endorsed by the Instructor of the course being added, and submit the 
same to the AC. No permission is required to drop a course. 
 
4.6 Withdrawing from a Course
After the last date of add-drop, a student will have the option of
withdrawing from a course. The last date of course withdrawal will be 1 
week after the first Mid-Term Exam. A student can withdraw from a course 
with the permission of the course Instructor, and subsequent approval 
from the Academic Committee. A student cannot add a new course in lieu 
of the dropped course. The withdrawn course will be mentioned in the 
Student’s grade card with a letter grade ‘Y’. 
 
4.7 Cancellation of Registration
Absence for a period of four or more weeks during a semester shall
result in automatic cancellation of the registration of a student from all the 
courses in that semester.

Program Credits to be earned
Compulsory Elective Thesis Total Total
Courses Courses
M.Tech. (Information and Communication
Technology) 15 15 30 60
4.8 Minimum Credit Requirements
An M.Tech. student shall be declared to complete her/his credit
requirements if she/he has earned the minimum number of credits as 
shown below in Table 3.
Table 3: Minimum Credit Requirements
5. TEACHING AND EVALUATION 
5.1 Teaching 
(a) Medium of Instruction
The medium of instruction of all courses shall be ENGLISH.
(b) Approval of Courses
Each course along with its weight in terms of credits is approved by the 
Senate. 
Only 
approved 
courses 
may 
be 
offered 
during 
any
(c) List of Courses
The list of courses to be offered in a M.Tech. Program is finalized before 
the beginning of the semester, by the Department hosting that Program.
(d) Conduct of Courses
Each course shall be conducted by the Faculty Member with the assistance 
of required Teaching Assistants, as required. The Faculty Member is 
responsible for conducting the course: teaching in the class, holding the 
examinations, evaluating the performance of students, awarding the 
grades at the end of the semester, and submitting the grades to AC within 
72 hours of the completion of the final examination.
(e) Teaching Assignments
Prior to each semester, the Head of the Department hosting the M.Tech. 
Program shall request the Faculty Members of her/his Department to 
provide a list of courses being floated by faculty members in the next 
semester. The Head of the Department shall hold a meeting of all its

S. Mid- Mid- End- Homeworks Term Laboratory
No. Semester 1 Semester 2 Semester Projects
faculty members to identify names of faculty members offering the 
courses of the next semester.
(f) Auditing of Courses
A student may audit any number of courses beyond the prescribed 
minimum number of courses. Students wishing to audit a course shall seek 
the consent of the Instructor of the course being audited. The name of the 
audited course will appear in the Grade-Card of the student. No grade will 
be awarded to students auditing a course; the Instructor may require such 
students to submit all homeworks and term papers during the semester 
just like the students, who are crediting the course.
5.2 Attendance Requirements
A student should have full attendance in each course. Unless the student
takes leave of absence for valid reasons, the student has to attend every lecture, 
tutorial, or lab session. If a student is absent without any reason, the Instructor 
would send him a warning by email. If the student’s attendance falls below 80% 
then the Instructor will notify the Academic Section and a letter will be sent to the 
student’s parents. If the student still does not attend the classes regularly, then 
the Academic Committee can deregister the student from the course. Once a 
student is deregistered from a course, that course will not show up in the grade-
card of the student.
5.3 Evaluation 
 
The performance of students in a course is evaluated in a
continuous basis, using their interaction in the classroom, and 
performances in examinations, the laboratory work (if any), and term-
papers and projects. 
(a) Schedule of Examinations
Each course shall have two mid-semester and one end-semester 
examinations; the mid-semester examinations shall be of 60 minutes 
duration and the final examination of 180 minutes. The weightages of 
elements of evaluation in different courses are listed in Table 4.
Table 4: Weightages of elements of evaluation in different courses

(b) Make-up Examinations
No make-up examinations are admissible for any reason. But, if a student 
fails to appear in any examination (two mid-semester and one end 
semester examinations) for a genuine reason (such as illness), she/he may 
make a request to AC for a make-up examination within two days of the 
date of the scheduled examination; a certificate shall be furnished from 
the Medical Officer of the Institute Health Center, when illness being the 
reason for absence from the examination. In such cases, the marks 
obtained in the other elements of evaluation shall be prorated for the 
examination missed. When two examinations are missed in a course, the 
prorating is done for only one examination; the marks in the other 
examination shall be taken as zero.
5.4 Grading System 
(a) Grades and Grade Points
At the end of the semester, a student is awarded a relative letter grade in 
each course by the Instructor offering the course considering the 
performance of the student during the semester with respect to those of 
the other students registered in the course. Five regular letter grades, 
namely A, B, C, D and F shall be awarded in each course for M.Tech. 
students. Each letter grade is associated with a numerical equivalent on a 
10-point scale (called Grade Point) shown in Table 5. The grades shall be 
submitted to the AC within 72 hours after the end semester examination. 
 
A student is awarded ‘I’ grade in a course, when the student fails to 
appear in the end-semester examination for a genuine reason. The 
student shall appear for a make-up examination within the first week of 
the next semester and seek to convert the ‘I’ grade into one of the regular 
grades, at least one day before the last date of add drop in the next 
semester. Any ‘I’ grade remaining after this date shall be converted 
automatically into an ‘F’ grade. 
 
An M.Tech. student securing a D grade in any of the courses will have to 
either repeat the course (if the course is a compulsory course) or 
repeat/substitute it with another relevant course (if the course is an 
elective course).

S. Letter Grade Comment
No. Grade Points
3 C 6 Average
4 D 4 Satisfactory
5 F 0 Unsatisfactory
6 I - Incomplete
7 S - Acceptable These grades are given for performance in
the M.Tech. Thesis work. If a student earns
X grades for M.Tech. Thesis in any
semesters, the M.Tech. Program of the
student shall be terminated immediately
thereafter.
X - Unacceptable
8 W - This grade indicates that a waiver granted for a course at IIT
Jodhpur due to courses credited and/or work done at a
institute or University elsewhere. All such courses and/or
requirements will be deemed to carry zero credits for
SGPA/CGPA calculations.
9 Y - This grade indicates that the student has withdrawn from a
course after the add-drop date with the permission of the
Course Instructor, and with subsequent approval from the
Academic Committee. All such courses and/or requirements
will be deemed to carry zero credits for SGPA/CGPA
calculations.
(b) Change of Grade Already Awarded
Normally, a letter grade once awarded shall not be changed. Only in 
exceptional circumstances, the Senate may allow the required change.
Table 5: Grades awarded to M.Tech. Students in each Post-Graduate course
5.5 Grade Point Averages
The Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) is a weighted average of
the grades earned by a student in all the courses credited by her/him and 
reflects her/his academic performance in the respective semester. If the 
grade points associated with the letter grades earned by a student in N 
courses registered during a semester are G1, G2, … GN, and the 
corresponding credits C1, C2, … CN, then the SGPA is given by

The Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) indicates the overall
academic performance of a student in all the courses registered up to the 
latest completed semester. The CGPA is computed in a similar manner as 
the SGPA, considering all the courses in all semesters. 
 
5.6 Grade Card and Transcript 
 
A Grade Card shall be issued to each student at the end of each
semester, and a Transcript at the end of the M.Tech. Program. 
 
 
 
6. TERMINATION 
6.1 Termination from M.Tech. Program 
 
A student may be terminated from the M.Tech. Program by the
Chairman, Senate, if the student 
(a) is absent without authorized leave of absence for a major part of the
semester and does not appear in the end-semester examination of the 
courses in which she/he is registered;
(b) fails to report and register by the last date of registration without a
bonafide reason;
(c) violates the code of conduct, involves in ragging, etc., as confirmed by the
student Disciplinary Action Committee of the Institute; or
(d) does not earn the prescribed minimum number of credits within a
maximum of 2 years from the date of registration, including all leaves of 
absence.
6.2 Appeal against Termination
A student, who is terminated from the M.Tech. Program, can
appeal for reconsideration to the Chairman, Senate. In the appeal, the 
student is expected to give reasons for poor academic performance and/or 
why the termination should be reconsidered. The Senate shall take a final 
decision after considering all the available inputs. But, the Senate will not 
entertain any further appeal for review, unless substantial additional 
information is brought to its notice. 
 
 
7. LEAVE
Application for leave of absence should be addressed to the
Chairman, AC, and submitted with a medical certificate, if applicable.

Usually, leave must not be availed of without prior approval of the AC. 
Applications for all kinds of leave must be submitted well in advance of the 
date of commencement of the leave requested. Student’s absence from 
the Institute without sanctioned leave will entail loss of financial 
assistantship for the period of absence and in extreme circumstances may 
also result in the termination from the respective M.Tech. Program. 
 
7.1 Short Leave 
 
M.Tech. students are entitled for vacation leave up to a maximum
of 15 days per Semester in addition to Public Holidays. Vacation leave not 
availed in a Semester will be carried over to the next Semester up to a 
maximum of 15 days. Leave of absence during the semester shall be 
discouraged for all registered students. For bonafide reasons, the student 
may also be allowed casual leave for up to 5 days per semester.
M.Tech. students may be granted medical leave, duly supported by
a medical certificate, up to a maximum of 15 days per year. Such leave shall 
not entail any loss of financial assistantship. Special Leave to attend 
Seminars and Conferences in India or abroad to present research papers, 
with the recommendation of Supervisor(s), is admissible. 
 
7.2 Temporary Withdrawal / Semester Leave
Normally, a student is not allowed to withdraw from the M.Tech.
program temporarily and is expected to complete the program without a 
break. But, for genuine reasons and/or in exceptional circumstances, a 
student may be allowed to withdraw temporarily on leave of absence at 
the discretion of AC and/or Senate for an extended period. Such leave of 
absence(s) shall ordinarily not exceed one semester with or without break 
during the entire period of the M.Tech. Program. Absence for a period of 
four or more weeks in any semester will result in automatic withdrawal 
from all courses in that semester.
In case of a prolonged leave of absence due to medical or other
genuine reasons, the student or his parents must notify the Office of 
Academics, before proceeding on leave, or as soon as possible. A student 
who remains on authorized leave of absence due to ill health, is required to 
submit on return a certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner to the 
effect that he/she is sufficiently cured and is fit to resume his/her studies. 
Within a fortnight of the student joining back to the Institute after

recovering from illness, he/she should get his treatment verified by the 
Medical Officer at the Health Center of IIT Jodhpur and get the treatment 
summary recorded on his/her medical booklet. The student will be allowed 
to register only when AC is fully satisfied of his/her state of health. The 
Academic Committee may advise the student to apply for a reduced course 
load or, if deemed necessary, dropping the semester. 
 
7.3 Permission to Proceed to other Institutions
To help students to broaden their horizons and gain course/work
experience, she/he may be permitted to proceed to other academic 
institutes in India or abroad as a non-degree student. The following 
guidelines and procedures apply for this purpose:
(1) Eligibility: A student may be allowed to spend up to one semester
and/or one summer terms in any academic institute/university/industry 
of repute in India or abroad with prior permission of AC, if the student 
has:
(i) Completed the minimum course work requirement at IIT Jodhpur;
and
(ii) No ‘F’ grade in any course.
(2) Procedure: The student shall make an application to AC through the
Supervisor and Head of the Department hosting the program, giving 
details of the proposed visit, and shall submit a statement of purpose 
with sufficient information about the institute/university/industry 
where she/he has chosen to spend time as a non-degree student. The 
AC will examine the student’s request. On the recommendation of the 
AC, the Senate may approve the proposal and grant permission, with 
leave of absence, to the student to proceed as a non-degree student to 
the selected institute.
(3) Transfer of Credits and Waiver in-lieu thereof: The student will be
informed about the requirements she/he must fulfil to apply, on her/his 
return, for academic credit. On return, the student may apply for 
waiver with an official transcript of the grades obtained by her/him at 
the selected institute as a non-degree student and other 
documents/material that the concerned Department may require for 
evaluation. The AC will determine the equivalent courses and/or 
requirements for which the student may be given a waiver in her/his 
M.Tech. Program at IIT Jodhpur. Against each course or requirement

for which a waiver is granted, the letter grade ‘W’ shall appear on the 
grade card and transcript. On the recommendation of the AC, the 
Senate may allow a student waiver for a maximum credit equivalent to 
that earned in 2 semesters in the respective branch in-lieu of her/his 
successful completion of the M.Tech. Program, elsewhere as a non-
degree student.
(4) Students selected by the Institute, using prescribed rules and
procedures, to proceed on any Academic Exchange Program will be 
governed by the other Clauses of 8.
8. REQUIREMENTS FOR GRADUATION 
 
A student is deemed to have completed the requirements for
graduation if she/he has met the requirements laid down in Clauses 8.1 to 
8.4. 
 
8.1 Minimum Duration of Residence 
 
The minimum duration of residence shall be 4 Semesters from the
date of registration, excluding the periods of leaves of absence, from the 
date of registration. Under no circumstances should students be permitted 
to spend more than 5 semesters to complete the course work and 8 
semesters for the total programme, including the Thesis work, from the 
date of registration to the programme. 
 
 
8.2 Academic
An M.Tech. student is said to have completed the course work
requirements, if she/he satisfies the criteria laid down in Sections 4 and 5.3. 
The student shall be declared to have fulfilled the Academic requirements 
if she/he has earned the minimum credits as per Table 4. Further, the 
student should have earned at least a C Grade in the minimum number of 
courses to be completed by her/him. In case a student earns a D grade in 
any of the compulsory courses, she/he has to repeat the course. 
 
8.3 Payment of Fees and Dues 
 
The student shall pay all admissible fee and dues, and seek a No
DUE CERTIFICATE from the Institute, on completion of the Academic 
Requirements.

8.4 No case of Disciplinary Action
The student shall not have any case of indiscipline pending against
her/him. 
 
8.5 Award of Degrees
A student who completes all the graduation requirements
specified in Clauses 8.1 to 8.4 is recommended by the Senate to the Board 
of Governors (BOG) for the award of the appropriate degree in the ensuing 
convocation. The degree can be awarded only after the BOG accords its 
approval. 
 
8.6 Withdrawal of Degree
Under extremely exceptional circumstances, where gross violation
of the graduation requirements is detected at a later stage, the Senate 
may recommend to the Board of Governors withdrawal of a degree 
already awarded to the student. 
 
 
 
9. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
Full-time M.Tech. students of the Institute are eligible for a
monthly stipend in return for 8 hours of work per week of Teaching or 
Research Assistantships. Teaching Assistantship duties shall include assisting 
Faculty Members in the conduct of courses (e.g., grading homeworks and 
tutorials, but not examinations, quizzes and term papers), and participating 
in tutorial or laboratory classes in the presence of Faculty Members (but 
not without them). Research Assistantship duties will include assisting 
faculty members in the conduct of research (e.g., related to sponsored 
research projects, but not related to consultancy projects).
10. AMENDMENTS
Notwithstanding anything contained in this document, the Senate
of IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to modify/amend without notice, the 
curricula, procedures, requirements, and rules pertaining to its M.Tech. 
Programs.

Regulations for M.Tech. Programs 
2014