SOURCE_PDF: 59c42253f47c_International-Mobility-Research-Grant-IMRG--638992338579874489.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
29th July 2024
&iltllHtl ~1OFFICE ORDER
Subject: Revised Policy and Guidelines for the International Mobility Research Grant
(IMRG) Scheme for Faculty Members-reg.
fcttr ~ <fi'r 28 ~ 2024 q;)- 3114~f\J1C1 32clT ~ ~ <fi'r df$" ~Rrr ~ 3lTUR q-{,
31"ffi1~TR1Cfl~ ~ 29 ~"
"
~
On the recommendation of the Finance Committee made in its 32nd Meeting held on 28th June 2024, the
Board of Governors in its 37th Meeting held on 29th June 2024 has approved the Revised Policy and
Guidelines for the International Mobility Research Grant (IMRG) Scheme for Faculty Members of the
Institute.
The Revised Policy is enclosed as Annexure.
To:
1.
All Faculty Members
2.
Dean of Research & Development (DORD)
3.
Associate Dean, Research & Development (ADRD)
4.
DR (R&D)
5.
Office of Research & Development
6.
Office of Internal Audit
7.
Office of Account
Copy to for kind information:
1.
The Director
2.
The Deputy Director
3.
All Deans 1 Associate Deans IPICs/Head of Deptts. 1Schools/ Centers/ Division

Eligibility: The new Faculty of the Institute are eligible for International Mobility Research Grant
within the 3 Years from date of iolninc
Financial
Support: 1. The mobility grant up to Rs. 5 Lakh would be prov ided to support travel and
contingency expenses to the Assistant Professor to visit the laboratorles of foreign
collaborators for a max imum of Institute summer vacation (m inimum two
months).
2.The faculty can receive additional support from the host instit uti on that can be
used for extended collaboration where the faculty will be allowed to extend the
travel by a semester. The faculty members may spend summer months plus a
complete semester as per Institute leave rules . Subsequent support of
collaboration is expected to be managed through extramural funded projects.
3.Faculty members availing the IMRG support would need to serve the Institute for
at least one year after the completion of the grant. A bond to this effect needs to
be furnished by the faculty.
Leave Rule for
Faculty: The faculty member will avail vacation leave to travel in the summer. In case of
extended collaboration, the faculty members may plan for a semester-long visit using
external funding or funding from the host. All standard leave rules will apply for the
period of absence from the Institute.
Grant usage rule : The IMRG grant will be used only for visa application fee, tickets by economy class,
insurance, and subsistence allowance. For a summer visit, a faculty members will be
allowed $2000 per month per diem. Rules of DST will be applicable for per-diem
subsistence allowances during internati onal t ravel. In case of shortfall, faculty members
may use their PDA.
Source of Fund: The IMRG would be supported from the R&D project overhead account of the Institute.
Maximum
Funding: Maximum 20 grants under this scheme during a financ ial year could be supported
subject to fund availability.
Selection
Process: A rigorous two-stage peer- review process would be followed for selection as under:
1. First-round by lIT Internal Screening Comm ittee constituted by Director; and
2. Second round by External Peer-Review based upon presentation of each
shortlisted faculty.
The expenditure related to travel, local accommodation, hosting and honorarium to
experts for the Selection process would be supported from the R&D Project Overhead
account of the Institute.
Application Cycle: The project proposal would be accepted every year on or before 316t December and the
results would be announced by 31st March of each year. The grant will be effective from
the followinq summer or the next summer.
Revised Policy and Guidelines for International Mobility Research Grant Scheme
The International Mobility Research Grant (IMRG) Scheme would facilitate new Faculty Members
(Assistant Professor both Grade I and Grade II) to visit International universities/research labs and
industry R&D labs* as per following guidelines:
Annexure