SOURCE_PDF: 5ab534115a83_IITJ_AR_2021_2022_English_FINAL.pdf

ANNUAL REPORT
2021-22
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Annual Report
FY 2021-22
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

1.	
Preface	
	
	
4
2. Vision, Mission & Goals	
6
3. Statutory Bodies	
8
3.1 Board of Governors	
8
3.2	Finance Committee	
9
3.3	Senate 
10
3.4	Buildings and Works Committee	
13
4. Key Functionaries	
14
5. The Institute	
18
5.1 Departments	
20
5.1.1 
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering	
21
5.1.2	
Department of Chemical Engineering	
60
5.1.3	
Department of Chemistry	
70
5.1.4	
Department of Civil & Infrastructure Engineering	
85
5.1.5	
Department of Computer Science & Engineering	
98
5.1.6	
Department of Electrical Engineering	
136
5.1.7	
Department of Humanities & Social Sciences	
165
5.1.8	
Department of Mathematics	
179
5.1.9	
Department of Mechanical Engineering	
187
5.1.10	
Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering	
221
5.1.11	
Department of Physics	
234
5.2	Interdisciplinary Research Division (IDRD)	
266
5.2.1	
Introduction to Interdisciplinary Research Division 
266
5.2.2	
Digital Humanities (DH)	
267
5.2.3	
Internet of Things & Applications (IoT)	
270
5.2.4	
Quantum Information & Computation	
274
5.2.5	
Robotics & Mobility Systems	
278
5.2.6	
Smart Healthcare	
281
5.2.7	
Space Science & Technologies	
293
5.3	Schools	
297
5.3.1	
School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science (SAIDE)	
298
5.3.2	
School of Management & Entrepreneurship (SME)	
321
Table of Contents

5.4	Centres	
334
5.4.1	
Centre for Emerging Technologies & Sustainable Development	
335
5.4.2	
Center for Technology Foresight and Policy (CTFP)	
339
5.5	Section-8 Companies 
341
5.5.1	
IITJ Technology Innovation & Start-up Centre	
342
5.5.2	
Jodhpur City Knowledge & Innovation Foundation	
350
5.5.3	
iHuB Drishti Foundation	
353
5.5.4	
IITJ Technology Park	
354
5.5.5	
IITJ Marudhara Foundation	
357
5.6 
Staff Members	
358
6. New Initiatives towards Vision 2025	
361
6.1 Planning & Resource Generation	
363
6.2	International Relations & Outreach	
363
6.3	Alumni Relations	
364
6.4	Executive Education	
371
7. Academics 
372
8. Research 
392
9. Events 
	
399
10. Facilities	
	
421
10.1 
Centre for Advanced Scientific Equipment (CASE)	
421
10.2	
	
Computer Centre	
422
10.3	
	
Library	
426
10.4	
	
Our Campus	
432
10.5	
	
Academic & Research Facilities	
437
10.6	
	
Sports Facilities	
440
10.7 
OBC, PwD & Minorities Cell	
441
10.8	
	
SC/ST Cell	
441
10.9	
	
Vigilance Office	
441
10.10	
Internal Complaints Committee	
441
10.11	
	
Office of Hindi	
441
10.12	
Office of Publications	
441
10.13	
Primary Health Centre	
442
11. Students	
	
444
12. Financial Position	
471

Preface
I am happy to report that IIT Jodhpur is making rapid 
progress in academics, research and outreach despite 
disruptions caused by COVID. In this year IIT Jodhpur 
met the target of built-up area and student strength as 
specified by the cabinet for setting up of the IIT. Among 
all second generation IITs, IIT Jodhpur is the first IIT to 
achieve this target.
IIT Jodhpur focused on implementation of different 
aspects of the new curriculum and new undergraduate 
and postgraduate programs through a combination of 
online teaching and limited in-campus instructions due 
to challenges posed by COVID. While implementing 
new curriculum, IIT Jodhpur has aligned its plans along 
the recommendations of NEP targeted towards Higher 
Educational Institutions like IITs.
Aligned with the spirit of NEP, the institute offers a B.Tech 
programme with multiple options and opportunities 
embedded in it. A B.Tech student has capability and
performance linked opportunity to take up additional 
credits in an area complimentary or different from 
his parent discipline (minor area) or take advanced 
courses in a specific sub-domain of his parent discipline 
(specialisation). The curriculum has been structured in 
such a way that there is a core B.tech program of 150 
graded credits and if they opt, they can do additional 
10 credits for a minor or specialisation add-on to his/her 
degree. Many students have opted for this option in this 
year. Students have opted for Entrepreneurship as an 
option for minor and got engaged in innovative product 
or process conceptualization as part of his B.Tech 
programme. They can even continue for one additional 
year and get a M.Tech degree in the area of his minor or 
specialization. In the case of Entrepreneurship minor area 
students can continue their entrepreneurial journey as 
part of their M.Tech and move to an incubator for a start-up 
– aligned with NEP recommendation of integrating and 
promoting entrepreneurship as part of formal academic
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

structure. As an option, students can also switch to a 
broader Engineering science B.Tech Programme after 
the first year. Number of students have opted for it. With 
Engineering Science they are also pursuing a B.Tech in 
specific Engineering Disciplines. Some of the students, 
as per our NEP inspired guidelines, has opted for a 
personalized programme - any meaningful combination 
of Engineering disciplines, Sciences and Liiberal arts 
- curated for an individual student based upon his/her 
choice under the supervision of a faculty as part their 
B.Tech in Engineering Science on top of a foundation in 
fundamentals of Engineering.
IIT Jodhpur is starting new 4-year BS programmes 
(aligning with NEP recommendation) with focus on 
technology directed basic sciences. The curriculum of 
these undergraduate BS programs is designed to equip 
students with a strong scientific background so that 
they can work in frontier technologies.. These programs 
require students to opt for any one of the focus areas 
like, Quantum Technology, Energy materials, Photonics 
as mandatory requirements. Students interested to 
embark on an entrepreneurial journey can, alternately, 
opt for Entrepreneurship.
Institute has brought in different aspects of NEP 
recommendation in its post-graduate programmes as 
well. In collaboration with AIIMS Jodhpur, IIT Jodhpur 
has started an innovation oriented joint Masters and 
Ph.d programme in Medical Technology aligned with the 
national objective of achieving self-reliance in medical 
equipment manufacturing. This first batch of Masters in 
Medical Technology will graduate.
IIT Jodhpur is involved in a number of advanced 
research, innovation and development activities. Some 
recently completed distinguished research projects of 
IIT Jodhpur include:
•
Development of a unique method to detect cataract.
•

Development of indigenous metal 3D Printer for 
aerospace and general engineering applications.
•

Development of novel framework to enhance the 
performance of Internet of Things (IoT) systems.
•

Development of early warning signs for neonatal, 
infant mortality.
We have a major initiative in the area of Artificial 
Intelligence and Internet of things (IoT) -AI of Things (AIOT). 
With the 5G coming, the use of IoT will be increasing 
substantially. IoT devices require integration of AI for what 
we call edge intelligence – intelligent action at the local 
site contextualized with global situation via high-speed 
communication network. IIT Jodhpur is embarking on a 
major programme in this area in collaboration with the 
state government, consistent with the Semiconductor 
Mission of the Government of India. Another mission of 
the Government of India is Digital health Mission and IIT 
Jodhpur has taken a specific initiative to work on various 
aspects of digital healthcare in collaboration with AIIMS 
Jodhpur.
IIT Jodhpur is actively working in the field of Quantum 
Technologies. Some of the areas of ongoing research 
are: Quantum Communications, Quantum Cryptography, 
and Quantum Machine Learning. We have built strong 
relations also with industries in this area,.
IIT Jodhpur is working on preservation and presentation 
of our tangible and intangible heritage in digital space. 
IIT Jodhpur has recently undertaken a project on 
creating digital twin of five museums of Rajasthan 
government in collaboration with -HUB Drishti and a 
start-up associated with iHUB Drishti. IIT Jodhpur is also 
working on creating a born Digital Museum on Crafts of 
Jodhpur in collaboration with Jodhpur City Knowledge 
and Innovation Foundation – a city centric innovation 
initiative supported by the office of Principal Scientific 
Advisor to GoI.
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Goals
Curriculum
To assimilate balanced, broad-based as well 
as specialized education in all curricula with 
opportunities for different kinds of students 
and their interests.
Pedagogy
To establish systems for dynamic 
development, implementation, and evaluation 
of futuristic pedagogy including blended-
hybrid teaching and experiential learning.
Research
Have a globally engaged research ecosystem 
with state-of-the-art facilities in place, for 
attaining leadership in research on academic, 
social, national, and industrial fronts while 
capitalizing on emerging and in-demand 
opportunities.
Outreach
To be the Institute of Choice for a lifelong 
learning journey of working professionals, 
alumni, and the community.
Institutional Collaboration
Have an efficient platform in place for forging 
impactful partnerships with academia, 
research institutes, business organizations, 
civil society, governments, and other agencies 
across the world for contributing to larger 
goals for humanity.
Industry Connect
Ensure ease of collaboration with industry 
for joint research/ projects, IPR development, 
technology transfer, and encouraging 
entrepreneurship/ startups, along with efficient 
supporting infrastructure and systems.
IIT Jodhpur
Vision, Mission & Goals
VISION
A future-driven institute 
for nurturing excellence of 
thought; creating, preserving, 
and imparting knowledge; 
and using transformational 
technologies/interventions 
with a multidisciplinary 
approach for responding 
to societal challenges and 
aspirations.
MISSION
♦ Foster humanitarian 
values, passion for 
learning, and creativity in 
faculty and students.
♦ Move towards high quality, 
futuristic educational, and 
research ecosystem.
♦ Develop socially 
responsible faculty, 
students, and future 
leaders, committed to 
creating a self-reliant 
India.
♦ Catalyze a professional 
internal culture along with 
enabling infrastructure 
and ancillary services.
♦ Forge effective national 
as well as international 
collaboration and 
partnership with industry 
and academia for diverse 
purposes and activities.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Financial Plan
Set up innovative resource mobilization 
mechanisms and expenditure 
management systems, embedded in the 
internal budgetary processes, to have 
ample resources/ funds for actualizing 
the institute’s vision and goals.
Infrastructure
Institute will have secure, evolving 
futuristic digital and physical 
infrastructure and ancillary services to 
meet all its needs, along with knowledge 
infrastructure for supporting learning and 
enabling skill development.
Student Life Cycle
Students will find at IIT Jodhpur (i) a 
vibrant learning environment, with 
opportunities for excelling in curricular, 
co-curricular and extracurricular 
activities, (ii) an effective career 
development process for their successful 
initiation to the professions of their 
choice and (iii) a strong linkage with 
alumni through regular interactions, 
support for their lifelong learning and 
professional development; and enabling 
their active participation as a stakeholder 
in the affairs of the institute.
Agile Organization
Ensure that IITJ continues to be an 
agile organization for both stability and 
dynamism as a network of teams with 
a people-centric culture that operates 
through fast but considered decision 
cycles which are enabled by technology, 
and guided by a powerful common 
purpose to co-create value for all 
stakeholders of the institute.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Board of Governors
Dr. R. Chidambaram
Chairman, BOG
DAE-Homi Bhabha Professor
Former Principal Scientific Adviser to Government 
of India
6th Floor, Central Complex, Trombay, Mumbai 400 085
Email: rajachid@gov.in, rc@barc.gov.in
Professor Akhil Ranjan Garg
Council Nominees
Department of Electrical Engineering
Faculty of Engineering & Technology
Jai Narayan Vyas University
Jodhpur 342 011
Email: agarg@jnvu.edu.in
Professor Narpat S. Shekhawat
Council Nominees
B131, Prithiviraj Nagar
Near Maharani Park
Pali Road
Jodhpur 342 001
Email: biotechunit@gmail.com
Professor Mitali Mukerji
Senate Nominees on the Board of Governors
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Karwar 342030
Phone : 0291- 280 1217
Email: mitali@iitj.ac.in
(Tenure From : 01.01.2022)
Professor Sampat Raj Vadera
Senate Nominees on the Board of Governors
Head, Department of Physics
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwad, Jodhpur 342 030
Email: srv@iitj.ac.in 
(Tenure Upto: 31.12.2021)
Professor Santanu Chaudhury
Member (Ex-officio)
Director
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwad
Jodhpur 342 030
Email: director@iitj.ac.in
Additional Secretary (Technical Education)
Council Nominees
Department of Higher Education
Ministry of Education
118-C, Shastri Bhawan
New Delhi 110 001
Email: ashe-mhrd@gov.in
Shri Anil Bhavarlal Jain
Council Nominees
Vice Chairman
MD & CEO,
Jain Irrigation Systems,
Jalgaon 425 002
Email: jisl@lains.com
Chief Secretary
Member (Nominee of State Government) 
Government of Rajasthan
Secretariat Jaipur 
Jaipur 302 005
Email: secretaryhte@gmail.com
Professor Surajit Ghosh
Senate Nominees on the Board of Governors
Professor, Department of Bioscience & 
Bioengineering
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwad
Jodhpur 342 030
Email: sghosh@iitj.ac.in
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Finance Committee
Dr. R. Chidambaram
Chairman, FC
DAE-Homi Bhabha Professor
Former Principal Scientific 
Adviser to Government of India
6th Floor, Central Complex, Trombay, Mumbai 400 085
Email: rajachid@gov.in
Mr. S. S. Bhandari, CA
Members
Non-Executive Director on the 
Board Bank of Baroda
P-7, Tilak Marg, C-Scheme
Jaipur 302 005
Email: bhandariss@hotmail.com
Sh. Ashoke Guha
Members
3403 ATS Greens II
Plot A-58, Sector 50
Gautam Budh Nagar
Noida 201307, Uttar Pradesh
Email: ashoke_guha@yahoo.co.in
Sh. P.G. Basak
Secretary to the Finance Committee
Offg. Registrar
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
N.H. 65, Nagaur Road, Karwad
Jodhpur 342 030
Email: registrar@iitj.ac.in
Professor Santanu Chaudhury
Member (Ex-officio)
Director
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
N. H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwad
Jodhpur 342 037
Email: director@iitj.ac.in
Sh. P.G. Basak
Secretary to the BoG
Offg. Registrar
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwad
Jodhpur 342 030
Email: registrar@iitj.ac.in
Additional Secretary (Technical Education)
Members
Ministry of Education
Shastri Bhawan
New Delhi 110001
Email: ashe-mhrd@gov.in
Joint Secretary and Financial Advisor (JS&FA)
Integrated Finance Division (IFD)
Department of Higher Education
Ministry of Education
Shastri Bhavan 
New Delhi 110115
Email: jsfa.edu@gov.in
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

The Director, Ex-officio, who shall be the
Chairman of the Senate Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur and
Chairman, Senate
The Deputy Director, Ex-officio Prof. S.R. Vadera, Deputy Director, IITJ
Three persons, not being employees of the
Institute, to be nominated by the Chairman
in consultation with the Director, from among
educationists of repute, one each from the fields
of science, engineering and humanities; and Dr. Sanjeev Misra, Director, AIIMS Jodhpur
The professors appointed or recognized as
such by the Institute for the purpose of imparting
instruction in the Institute. 1. Prof. S.R. Vadera, Deptt. of Physics
Deans Prof. Surajit Ghosh, Dean (R&D)
Heads of the Departments or Schools as may be
established by the Institute. Department of Bioscience and Bioengineering
Dr. Meenu Chhabra (Upto 31.08.2021)
Prof. Mitali Mukerji (w.e.f. 01.09.2021)
Senate
Constitution of Senate
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Heads of the Departments or Schools as may be
established by the Institute. Department of Mathematics
Dr. Puneet Sharma
One or more members of academic from each of
the Departments and Schools, nominated by the
Chairman of the Senate, for a period of one year,
subject to a maximum of two persons from any
Department or School. Department of Bioscience and Bioengineering
Dr. Sushmita Jha, Associate Professor
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

One or more members of academic from each of
the Departments and Schools, nominated by the
Chairman of the Senate, for a period of one year,
subject to a maximum of two persons from any
Department or School. Department of Mathematics
Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar, Associate Professor
Two distinguished persons from the industry,
Research & Development, Financial Institutions
and any other comparable organizations,
nominated by the Chairman of the Senate, for a
period of two years. Dr. Souvik Bhattacharyya, Vice Chancellor,
BITS Pilani
Upto five student representatives nominated by
the Chairman of the Senate, as special invitees,
for a period of one year whose participation shall
be for the non-evaluation items of the Senate. 1. General Secretary, Student Senate
2. General Secretary, Co-curricular Affairs
3. General Secretary, PG Academic Interaction Council
4. General Secretary, UG Academic Interaction Council
5. General Secretary, Hostel Affairs (Upto: 25.10.2021)
1. General Secretary, Student Senate
2. General Secretary, ACAC
3. Vice President, Board of Academic Interaction
(w.e.f. 26.10.2021)
Invitees 1. Professor-in-charge (Faculty)
Secretary to the Senate Sh. P.G. Basak Offg. Registrar
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Building and Works Committee
Professor Santanu Chaudhury
Director
Chairman
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH 62, Nagaur Road
Karwad, Jodhpur 342030
Email: director@iitj.ac.in
Professor Neeraj Gupta
Members
Department of Architecture, 
Central University of Rajasthan
NH-8, Bandar Sindri,
District Ajmer-305817
Email: ng@curaj.ac.in, ng2560@yahoo.com
Sh. Ramesh Chand Jain
Members
Additional Chief Engineer (Retd.)
KA-1, Bhagat Ki Kothi Extension, Pali Road
Jodhpur 342 003
Email: rameshjain1953@gmail.com
Sh. P. G. Basak
Secretary to the B&WC
Officiating Registrar
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH 62, Nagaur Road
Karwad, Jodhpur 342030
Email: registrar@iitj.ac.in
Sh. Anil Kumar Jain
Members
Flat 9-B, Tower -X, Meghdutam Apartments
Plot F-21C, Sector 50, NOIDA (UP) 201301
Mob: 9810826028 P- 0120 4903191
Email: akjain54@yahoo.com
Professor B. Bhattacharjee
Members
Emeritus Professor
Department of Civil Engineering
Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, Hauz Khas
New Delhi – 110 016
Email: bishwa@civil.iitd.ac.in
Prof. Amitava Mitra
Members
Professor-in-charge (Infrastructure)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH 62, Nagaur Road
Karwad, Jodhpur 342030
Email: amitra@iitj.ac.in
Chief Project Manager
Special Invitee
IIT Jodhpur Project Division
Central Public Works Department (CPWD)
Nirman Bhawan, Jodhpur 342011
eMail: cpmiitjpz.cpwd@gov.in
Mobile: (+91) 98181 80952
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Key Functionaries
Details of various key functionaries of the Institute are as follow:
Director 
Santanu Chaudhury 
Dean (R&D)
Surajit Ghosh
Associate Deans
Rakesh K. Sharma, (Upto 31.08.2021)
Shree Prakash Tiwari, (w.e.f. 01.09.2021)
Research & Development
Suril V. Shah, (Upto 10.03.2022)
Gaurav Harit, (w.e.f. 11.03.2022)
Academics (UG Programs)
Somnath Ghosh, (Upto 10.03.2022)
Atul Kumar, (w.e.f. 11.03.2022)
Academics (PG Programs)
Samanwita Pal 
Student Affairs
Indranil Banerjee
Hostel Affairs (w.e.f. 01.09.2021)
Deepak Fulwani
Planning & Resource Generation
Kaushal Kumar A. Desai
International Relations & Outreach
Head of Departments/School/Centers/Division
Department of Bioscience and Bioengineering
Dr. Meenu Chhabra (Upto 31.08.2021)
Prof. Mitali Mukerji (w.e.f. 01.09.2021)
Department of Chemical Engineering
Prof. P.K. Tewari
Department of Chemistry
Dr. Manikandan Paranjothy
Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Prof. Richa Singh
Department of Electrical Engineering
Dr. Arun Kumar Singh
Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Dr. Ankita Sharma (Upto 31.08.2021)
Dr. K.J. George (w.e.f. 01.09.2021 to 30.01.2022)
Prof. Sangeeta Sahney (w.e.f. 31.01.2022)
Department of Mathematics
Dr. Puneet Sharma
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Admissions (UG and PG) Dr. Sandeep K. Yadav
Grades and Registration (UG & PG) Dr. Aashish Mathur
Time Table Dr. Hardik Kothadia
Evaluations (UG & PG) Dr. Atul Kumar
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Dr. Prodyut R. Chakraborty
Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
Prof. B.P. Kashyap
Department of Physics
Prof. S. R. Vadera (Upto 31.08.2021)
Dr. Ashutosh K. Alok (w.e.f. 01.09.2021)
Department of Civil & Infrastructure Engineering
Dr. Ranju Mohan
School of Management & Entrepreneurship
Dr. Krishna Kumar Balaraman
School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science
Director, IIT Jodhpur (Upto 31.08.2021)
Prof. Neeraj Jain (w.e.f. 01.09.2021)
Centre for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development
Dr. Anand K. Plappally
Centre for Technology Foresight & Policy
Dr. Deepak M. Fulwani (Upto 31.08.2021)
Dr. Krishna Kumar Balaraman (w.e.f. 01.09.2021)
IDRP
Dr. S. C. Bose
Professors In-Charge
C. Venkatesan 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Faculty
S. R. Vadera	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Stores & Purchase (Upto 31.08.2021)
Amitava Mitra 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Infrastructure Engineering
Mayank Vatsa 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Corporate Relations (w.e.f. 01.09.2021)
Registrar
P. G. Basak 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Advisor (Admin) & Offg. Registrar
Chairman
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Academic Research Programs Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar
(Upto 28.02.2022)
Curriculum Implementation (UG) Dr. Suril Shah
(from 11.03.2022 )
Curriculum Implementation (PG) Dr. Somnath Ghosh
(from 11.03.2022 )
PG Admissions Dr. Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay
UG Admissions Dr. Deepak Arora
Continuing Education Programme (CEP) Dr. Venkatesha Murthy R
Security and Transport Dr. Satyajit Sahu
TISC Dr. Sankalp Pratap
Technology Park Dr. Ram Prakash
Marudhara Foundation Associate Dean (PRG)
Career Development Cell Dr. Anuj Pal Kapoor
Alumni Relations Dr. Shankar Manoharan
Guest House and Visiting Faculty Accommodation Dr. Abir Bhattacharyya
SC & ST Dr. Ramesh K. Metre, Associate Professor, Department of Chemistry
OBC, PWD and Minority Dr. Appala N. Gandi, Assistant Professor, Department of MME
Economically Weaker Sections (EWSs) Dr. Shree Prakash Tiwari, Associate Professor, Department of EE
Part-Time, Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) Dr. Gaurav Harit, Associate Professor, Deptt. of CS&E
Transparency Officer Dr. S.C. Bose, Advisor (Academic)
Coordinators IDRPs
Coordinator- Robotics and Mobility Systems
Dr. Niladri Sekhar Tripathy, (w.e.f. 01 Sep 2021)
Coordinator- Digital Humanities 
Dr. Parichay Patra, (w.e.f. 01 Sep 2021)
Coordinator- IoT & Applications
Dr. Kamaljit Rangra, (w.e.f. 01 Sep 2021)
Coordinator- Quantum Information and Computation
Dr. Subhashish Banerjee, (w.e.f. 01 Sep 2021)
Coordinator- Smart Healthcare
Dr. Meenu Chhabra, (w.e.f. 01 Sep 2021)
Coordinator- Space Technologies
Dr. Arun Kumar R, (w.e.f. 01 Sep 2021)
Statutory Charge
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

First Appellate Authority (RTI) Deputy Director
Central Public Information Officer (CPIO),
RTI Sh. Ashok K. Khanduri, Jt. Registrar
Assistant Public Information Officer (APIO),
RTI Sh. Prashant Bhardwaj, Assistant Registrar
Estate Officer Sh. Amardeep Sharma, Joint Registrar
Public Relations Director’s Office
Hindi Officer Dr. Puneet Sharma, Associate Professor, Deptt. of Maths.
GIAN Program Dr. Kaushal K. Desai, Associate Professor, Deptt. of ME
Swachh Bharat Abhiyan Dr. Meenu Chhabra, Associate Professor, Deptt. of BB
Unnat Bharat Abhiyan Dr. Ananya Debnath
(Upto 31.08.2021)
Dr. Anand K. Plappaly, Associate Professor
Deptt. of ME, (w.e.f. 01.09.2021)
Vigyan Jyoti Program Dr. Priyanka Singh, Assistant Professor, Deptt. of BB
(Upto: 6.08.2021)
Dr. Ritu Gupta, Associate Professor, Department of Chemistry
(w.e.f. 07.08.2021)
DAAD Scholarships Program Dr. Sandip Murarka, Assistant Professor, Deptt. of Chemistry
(Upto 31.08.2021)
Dr. Kaushal K. Desai, Associate Professor, Deptt. of ME
(w.e.f. 01.09.2021)
Study in India Program Dr. Somnath Ghosh, Associate Professor, Deptt. of Physics
(Upto 31.08.2021)
Dr. Kaushal K. Desai, Associate Professor, Deptt. of ME
(w.e.f. 01.09.2021)
National Institutional Ranking Framework
(NIRF) Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar, Associate Professor, Deptt. of Mathematics
(Upto: 31.08.2021)
Prof. Richa Singh, Professor, Deptt. of CS&E, (w.e.f. 01.09.2021)
All India Survey on Higher Education
(AISHE) Portal Dr. Kshema Prakash, Deputy Librarian
Atal Ranking of Institution on Innovation
Achievements (ARIIA) Portal Faculty-in-charge (TISC)
Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat (EBSB) Dr. Rohan Diliprao Erande, Assistant Professor, Deptt. of Chemistry
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Associate Dean (PRG)
Indian Science, Technology and
Engineering facilities Map (I-STEM) Head, CASE
Fit India Programme Sh. Gaurav Nigam, Superintendent, Office of Students
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

The Institute has organized its academic and research 
activities to be conducted through the following 
Departments, Interdisciplinary Programs (IDRPs), Schools 
and Centres, whose details are given in the pages to 
follow:
Departments
1. Bioscience & Bioengineering
2. Chemical Engineering
3. Chemistry
4. Civil & Infrastructure Engineering
5. Computer Science & Engineering
6. Electrical Engineering
7. Humanities & Social Sciences
8. Mathematics
9. Mechanical Engineering
10. Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
11. Physics
The Institute
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Interdisciplinary Research Platforms (IDRPs)
1. Digital Humanities
2. IoT & Applications
3. Quantum Information and Computation
4. Robotics and Mobility Systems
5. Smart Healthcare
6. Space Technologies
Schools
1. School of Management & Entrepreneurship
2. School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science
Centres
1. 
Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable 
Development
2. Center for Technology Foresight and Policy

In addition, Institute has promoted following 
section-8 companies to achieve specific objectives 
of collaborative technology development, 
enhancing innovation ecosystem and outreach to 
the local community.
•
IITJ Technology Innovation & Start-up Centre
•

Jodhpur City Knowledge & Innovation 
Foundation
•
iHuB Drishti Foundation
•
IITJ Technology Park
•
IITJ Marudhara Foundation
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Departments

Department of Bioscience 
& Bioengineering
Introduction
The Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering (BSBE) 
@IITJ aspires to build a unique academic and research 
ecosystem that enables the sustainable development of 
human resource capacity and technological solutions in 
healthcare, renewable energy, food, and the environment. 
We provide state-of-the-art domain knowledge and 
training to understand biological systems as well as 
innovative Bio-Tech solutions for applications in medical 
and environmental engineering domains. These include 
biofuels, diagnostics, therapeutics, and smart healthcare 
devices.
The Department currently has 17 Faculty members with 
expertise ranging from fundamental research to applied 
sciences. These include the areas of brain science; 
inflammation and immunity; neuronal protein quality 
control; microtubule biology; tumor biology; molecular 
microbiology; environmental biotechnology; genomics;
plant functional genomics; computational, structural, 
and systems biology; nanomedicine, and biomaterials 
engineering etc. The Department has organized itself 
into nine thematic areas including cell and molecular 
physiology, 
neuroscience 
& 
neuroengineering, 
biomaterials & tissue engineering, genomics & systems 
biology, 
environmental 
biotechnology, 
molecular 
microbiology, biophysics, molecular motors & cell 
motility, and computational biology & bioinformatics. The 
Department faculty members are also affiliated with the 
School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science (AIDE), 
Centre for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable 
Development (CETSD), and interdisciplinary research 
platforms smart healthcare (IDRPSH) that provide 
avenues and platforms for extensive trans-disciplinary 
interactions of the faculties and students from diverse 
disciplines in academic and research programs.
Following are the Faculty Members associated with the 
department:
Faculty Members
Mitali Mukerji
Professor & Head of Department
Specialization/ Research interest:
Genomics and Systems Biology
Shankar Manoharan
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Molecular Microbiology, Host-
Microbe Interaction, Genomics and 
Metagenomics
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Priyanka Singh
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Cellular and Molecular Biology
Indranil Banerjee
Associate Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Tissue Engineering; Regenerative 
medicine; Biomaterials Theranostic 
systems; Biomicrofluidic
Neha Jain
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Molecular Biophysics and 
Microbiology
Pankaj Yadav
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Statistical Genetics and Big Data 
Analytics
Mitali Mukerji
Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Genomics and System Biology
Ayan Sadhukhan
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Plant Functional Genomics
Sushmita Paul
Assistant Professor
Computational Biology and 
Bioinformatics
Raviraj Vankayala
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Nanobiotechnology; Biomaterials and 
Photomedicine
Surajit Ghosh
Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Chemical Neurobiology, Chemical 
Biology and Cancer Biology
Sudipta Bhattacharyya
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Structural Biology; Enzyme Chemistry 
and Protein Engineering
Sucharita Dey
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Computational Structural Biology
Dinesh Kumar Ahirwar
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Tumor Microenvironment
The following new faculty members joined the department during this financial year.
Amit Kumar Mishra
Associate Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience, 
Cell Cycle Regulation and Cancer
Sushmita Jha
Associate Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Cell and Molecular Physiology, 
Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Description of Research Groups
The following laboratories are functioning in the Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering.
1. Cell & Molecular Physiology Laboratory
Faculty members associated: Dr. Amit Mishra, Dr Sushmita Jha and Dr. Dinesh Ahirwar
The thematic area in Cellular and Molecular Physiology focuses on understanding how cellular and molecular 
processes give rise to complex physiologic functions.Our understanding of the normal and diseased states of 
human physiology allow for development of better technologies and therapeutics to tackle disease, prolong life-
span and delay disease progression. Additionally, studies of physiology can allow for development of bioinspired 
engineering solutions.
Groups under this theme
1. Inflammation, Immunity & Tumor Biology Group
Research within this thematic area focuses on two leading healthcare issues in India; environmental pollution with 
nanosilica and cancer (specifically brain tumours- gliomas). Malignant gliomas, the most common primary brain 
tumors that arise from glial cells within the central nervous system (CNS), are among the most fatal human cancers. 
With a median survival of only 14.6 months even after aggressive therapy with surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy, 
most patients succumb to their disease within two years of the initial diagnosis. Taking into consideration, the 
paradigm shifts from traditional surgical resection to precision medicine, we use a multi-pronged approach taking 
into account the cellular heterogeneity of gliomas, their microenvironment and 3-dimensional cell-cell interactions to 
identify the role of innate immunity and inflammasome signalling pathways in gliomas. This could potentially provide 
a novel link between innate immunity and glioma pathophysiology with widespread therapeutic implications for
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

delaying glioma progression and/or sensitizing gliomas to other treatment modalities. Our aim is to develop three 
dimensional tumor spheroids as a personalized medicine framework to allow for pre-clinical drug development, 
biomarker analysis, drug-testing model, as well as basic cancer research. Importantly, our research aims to create 
a deeper understanding of glioma pathophysiology from the Indian subcontinent and develop technologies for 
precision medicine. Another focus of our research is to understand the effects of amorphous nanosilica on cellular 
and molecular physiology. Amorphous nanosilica exposure has widespread applications and with increased human 
exposure it is critical to understand the interaction of these with the human immune system. We are analyzing size, 
concentration and exposure time-dependent effects of amorphous nanosilica on human bronchoalveolar epithelial, 
endothelial and fibroblast cells. In addition, innate immune regulators associated with nanosilica internalization and 
subsequent inflammatory pathways are being explored.
A patent has been filed for a portable hypoxia chamber that has been developed at IITJ. The process of translating 
this technology with the help of Industry partners is underway. Assistance has been provided to colleagues from 
Defense Lab Jodhpur in evaluating wound dressing properties of chitin membranes containing nanosilver and it 
has been published in Biomedical Physics & Engineering Express, IOP Science, Volume 4, Number 2, 2018, https://
doi.org/10.1088/2057-1976/aaa9ca. Recently funding has been received from the Ministry of Electronics and 
Information Technology (MEITy) for development of an interdisciplinary research platform for dissecting the complex 
cellular interactions using human tumor derived spheroids, computational biology and artificial intelligence-based 
approaches.
2. Cellular Proteome Complexity and Physiology:
Quality Control E3 Ubiquitin 
Ligase: Regulate Cellular 
Proteome Complexity
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Proteins in their native conformation are essential for maintaining the structure and function of different cellular 
systems. Multiple cellular physiological processes depend on proteins for their smooth functioning, such as cell 
growth, division, and metabolism. Any alteration in the native structure of proteins due to stress events can cause 
their misfolding and disturb cellular homeostasis. Cells retain multiple protein quality control (PQC) pathways, 
including protein folding and refolding through chaperones, clearance of misfolded proteins through ubiquitin-
proteasome system (UPS), and bulk degradation of protein aggregates through autophagy to re-establish 
homeostasis. Failure of these pathways in multiple proteinopathies, including neurodegenerative diseases can 
lead to aggregation of misfolded proteins into amyloids and other protein inclusion bodies. Our lab investigates 
the mechanistic basis of PQC components, including chaperones (Hsp70), E3 ubiquitin ligases (LRSAM1, MGRN1), 
proteasome, and autophagy-related proteins (p62, LC3, LAMP2). We also study the possible effects of modulation of 
these components via natural (myricetin, lanosterol) and synthetic compounds (indomethacin, diclofenac, ibuprofen) 
on pathological conditions. Our work can improve the fundamental understanding of PQC pathway’s effects on 
cellular and molecular physiology. The reported modulators can be further investigated for their clinical translational 
potential against complex diseases, as many of them have the advantage of being already approved by regulatory 
bodies.
3. Tumor Microenvironment Group
Tumor microenvironment: Interaction of tumor cells with different types of host cells
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Recent comprehensive and integrated studies using modern technologies, including next-generation sequencing, 
mass cytometry, and multiplex immunostaining, have established the solid tumors as a complex organ. These 
studies have shown that, along with malignant cells, the tumor contains various types of host cells and non-cellular 
components, creating a complex tumor microenvironment (TME). The tumor cells hijack the host cells to acquire 
aggressive properties. Tumor educated host cells, including tumor-associated macrophages, myeloid-derived 
suppressor cells, cancer-associated fibroblast, and regulatory T cells have been shown to support the spread of 
tumor to other organs, known as metastasis, which is the major cause of cancer related death. Therefore, it is 
imperative to study the tumor and host cells interaction occurring in the TME to better understand the mechanisms 
of cancer pathogenesis and harness this knowledge to develop novel therapeutic targets against this deadly 
disease.
The major focus of our lab is to understand the role of immune cells, including macrophages and T cells in tumor 
progression and metastasis. Using genetically engineered cell lines, transgenic mouse models and modern 
proteogenomic techniques, we are trying to identify the molecular mechanisms involved in tumor cells and immune 
cells cross-talk that leads to tumor progression and metastasis. Furthermore, using mouse models which are 
humanized and harbor patient-derived tumor samples, we are performing high quality pre-clinical studies, which can 
be quickly transferred into clinics and provide effective therapeutic options to the cancer patients.
2. Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Environmental biotechnology thematic lab at IITJ focuses on applications of microorganisms to curb environmental 
pollution, provide clean energy, and remediate toxic or hazardous waste. The versatile microbial metabolism 
enables their utilization for environmental cleanup. Another critical focus is waste to energy conversion systems, in 
particular, bioelectrochemical systems which combine the versatility of microbial metabolism with electrochemistry. 
The bioelectrochemical systems can also serve as biosensors for environmental monitoring and assessment.
Faculty members associated with this theme: Dr. Meenu Chhabra
Groups under this theme
1. Bioenergy & Bioremediation Group
To foster the research on technologies associated with renewable bioenergy and environmental mitigation, the 
environmental Biotechnology lab was established in the department in 2011. The critical problems associated with 
bioenergy and bioremediation are addressed using Bio-electrochemical systems namely Microbial Fuel Cells. A 
decade-long research has led to the development of the process for simultaneous removal of U(VI) and Nitrate that 
was subsequently tested at BARC, Mumbai. Similarly, a low-cost microbial carbon capture cell for algae cultivation 
and power generation was developed as a part of DBT-funded pan IIT center on Bioenergy. Further, the research 
group is actively collaborating with other engineering departments to test the process applicability on industrial flue 
gas carbon capture. The expertise on bio-electrochemical systems has been extended towards the development of 
sensors for IoT applications. In this regard, an interdisciplinary project on point of use and inline coliform sensors for 
smart water management was funded recently by the Jal Jeevan mission, ministry of Jal Shakti. The group strives to 
find sustainable solutions for energy and environment. In this regard, the research on plastic waste bioremediation 
needs impetus and researchers have been trying to develop microbial consortia from the plastic waste dump sites. 
Moreover, combinations of treatments are being tested for plastic waste remediation.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Faculty members associated: Dr. Indranil Banerjee and Dr. Raviraj Vankayala
Biomaterials and Tissue Engineering is a transdisciplinary knowledge domain and encompasses sub-domains of 
material science, chemistry, physics, cell and molecular biology, chemical engineering, mechanical engineering, 
nanotechnology, and microfluidics. The rapid evolution of biomaterials and tissue engineering is driven by the 
growing needs of medical devices, implants, drug delivery vehicles, and engineered tissues. Biomaterials and 
Tissue engineering has now become an integral component of the translational research in bioengineering.
Groups under this theme
1. Integrative Tissue Engineering Group
The focus of the Integrative Tissue Engineering Laboratory is to decipher the underlying mechanism of tissue repair 
and regeneration over a length scale of ‘micro to nano’, and to translate the understanding into bioengineering 
strategies for tissue engineering and regenerative medicine. Precisely, the lab aims to address three fundamental 
questions. Firstly, what are the novel clues (universal or cell specific) that contributes significantly to the 
physiological processes related to tissue repair and regeneration; secondly, how these different cues/factors co-
exist, modulate and cooperate in tissue repair and regeneration and finally, up to what certainty such factors can be 
manipulated spatio-temporally to engineer the outcome of tissue engineering and regenerative medicine.
3. Biomaterials & Tissue Engineering Laboratory
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

In pursuance of the goal, a trans-disciplinary approach has been adopted that involves strategic amalgamation 
of the knowledge and techniques of cell biology, regenerative biology, biomaterial science, microfluidics, 
nanotechnology and tissue engineering. The benefit of such an approach is that it is comprehensive and integrative 
in nature like any complex physiological process. It is believed that the integrative approach will help us to gain a 
deep insight and comprehensive understanding of tissue repair and regeneration. Furthermore, such an approach 
will make tissue engineering an affordable, reproducible and safe health care technology in near future for on-
demand production of the so-called spare parts of the human body.
In line with the goal, the following problems are being deduced:
(i) Deciphering the mechanism of angiogenesis and tuning of the biomaterial mediated angiogenic response
(ii) Mechanistic analysis of osteogenic differentiation and biomaterial induced osteogenesis
(iii) 
Reconstruction of cell-friendly 3D microarchitecture with reproducible design parameters for bone tissue 
engineering.
(iv) 
Synthesis and characterization of cell derived membrane vesicles and understanding of its regenerative 
potential.
(v) Development of organ-on-chip to probe the cellular cross talk
2. Nanomedicine and Biomaterials Group
Research under the thematic area is primarily focused on the synthesis and characterization of smart biomaterials 
and nanomaterials, nanomedicine and nanotheranostics, drug delivery, engineering of tissue graft, organ-on-a-
chip devices, therapeutic angiogenesis, and regenerative medicine. The major focus is to develop new generation 
multi-functional materials, which have tremendous potential to address challenges in tackling various diseases, such 
as cancer, ischemic stroke and other neurodegenerative diseases. In particular, we work on inorganic and organic 
nanomaterials for cancer theranostics, polymeric and biomimetic delivery systems, and nanomaterials for gene 
therapy.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

4. Molecular Microbiology Laboratory
Faculty members associated: Dr. Shankar Manoharan and Dr. Neha Jain
Microbial cells living in the human gut outnumber the total human cells in our bodies. Also, one is regularly exposed 
to several microbes from the environment. It is therefore essential to understand the biology of microbes that may 
be beneficial to us as well as those, which are potentially harmful. Using molecular methods, an attempt is made 
to understand the basic functioning of individual microbial cells as well as microbial communities. Microbes shift to 
a community mode of growth, often under stressed conditions, by forming biofilms. Biofilms can be polymicrobial 
and are difficult to eliminate as they are resistant to stresses that individual bacteria are sensitive to. A small group 
of researchers working under this theme use molecular methods and genomics approaches to understand the 
physiology of individual microbes as well as their communities.
Groups under this theme
1. Molecular Microbial Physiology Group
Hospital-associated infections caused by Klebsiella pneumoniae contribute significantly to the disease burden, 
especially in low- and medium-income countries. Most hospital-associated pathogens are rapidly acquiring 
virulence factors and becoming resistant to commonly used antibiotics, thereby largely limiting treatment options. 
Current work is aimed at deciphering how virulence is regulated in the pathogen K. pneumoniae using genetic 
and genomic approaches. Specifically, mechanisms that control virulence at the post-transcriptional level are being 
explored. This work will contribute to the development of anti-virulence strategies, where the expression of one or 
more key virulence factors can be affected. This is expected to decrease the overall virulence of the pathogen and 
easier clearance by the host immune system.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

In addition, microbial communities in the human gut have gained focus for their effect on host disease response, 
drug response, metabolism, behavior and even emotions. Work from the department is under progress to 
understand the impact of external stimuli on the human gut microbiota and how changes in the microbial 
community impact the host. Specifically, the effect of the very commonly prescribed, antidiabetic drug on the 
human gut microbiota is being explored. Future research to probe other environmental stimuli including specific 
food items, food additives, prebiotics, probiotics and common exposures is also being planned. Four Ph.D. 
students are currently working in this area. Collaborative work from the Microbial Physiology Lab has shown 
that modulation of gut microbes in iNOS knock-out mice remediates insulin resistance (Aggarwal et al., Front. 
Cell. Infect. Microbiol. 2021). In collaboration with AIIMS Jodhpur, we have also sequenced and analyzed the 
genome of a hypermucoviscous clinical isolate of Klebsiella pneumoniae with no known genetic determinants of 
hypermucoviscosity (Dey et al., Microbiol. Spectr. 2022).
2. Functional Amyloid Biology Group
Amyloids are highly stable ordered cross-β-sheet aggregates of proteins which are considered as the hallmark of 
neurodegenerative disorders like Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s. Recent years have witnessed the emergence of a 
new class of amyloids designated as ‘functional amyloids’ where the amyloid fold is not deleterious to the cell, but is 
instead harnessed to perform diverse functions. Functional amyloids are produced by all cell types from microbes to 
human beings. A majority of the microbial amyloids play roles in surface adhesion (biofilm formation) and structural 
integrity and thus provide a fitness advantage. Often, these microbial amyloids play a key role in the progression of 
human diseases. Current work focuses on amyloids that have both functional and disease-associated properties. 
For example, the role of microbial amyloids in the progression of neurodegenerative diseases are being explored. 
Additionally, strategies to combat persistent bacterial infections, often caused by biofilms by disruption of these 
biofilms are being explored. The group has one SERB funded project and three Ph.D students working in this 
area. Two M.Tech students contributed in this area have graduated from the group. Recent work from the lab has 
demonstrated the different species during amyloid formation and their response to immune system (Nicastro et al 
PLoS Pathogens 2022).
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

5. Biophysics Laboratory
Faculty members associated: Dr. Sudipta Bhattacharya and Dr. Neha Jain
“Seeing is believing” … according to this famous quote, visual inspection paves the most convincing way to divulge 
naturally occurring phenomena. In the structural biology and protein engineering lab, we aim to elucidate complex 
biological phenomena by unraveling the molecular snapshots of the concerned pathways through the atomic 
resolution structures of the macromolecules involved. For this purpose, we principally use the cutting-edge tools 
of structural biology (X-ray diffraction crystallography and single particle Cryo-Electron microscopy) to define the 
structure-function behavior of biological macromolecules.
Groups under this theme
1. Structural Biology & Protein Engineering Group
The main focus is to deduce the molecular mechanism of diseased conditions. Likewise, taking a reductionist’s 
approach we target proteins or protein complexes involved in disease progression and pathogenesis to reveal 
their molecular mechanism of action. The detailed three-dimensional structural information gained thereof, not 
only pinpoint the role of the target proteins/protein complexes but also help design structure-based lead inhibitor 
libraries against these potential drug target candidates. Further kinetic characterization of these potential inhibitor 
leads against the drug candidate proteins is performed to validate their antagonistic properties in vitro. The 
structural biology and protein engineering lab also aims to engineer industrially important enzymes to customize 
their structure-function to cater industrial needs. The high-resolution structural information of the industrially 
important protein(s)/enzymes(s) also enable us to gain significant insights into their structure-function relationships 
which in turn allow us to tailor their function by the state-of-the-art protein engineering and bioinformatic tools. 
Recently we published the high resolution Cryo-EM structure of Pseudomonas aeruginosa drug efflux pump, TriABC. 
TriABC efflux pump plays the central role in Pseudomonas aeruginosa drug resistance (Fabre et al., Structure 2021) 
In our other recently published works, we used the combined approach of synthetic chemistry and pharamacophore 
guided drug discovery to design therapeutic leads against drug resistant opportunistic pathogen Staphylococcus 
aureus (Mali et al., ACS Omega 2021) and Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Jain et al., Org. Biomol, Chem 2022.; Singh 
et al., FEBSJ 2022) .
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

2. Functional Amyloid Biology Group (description aforementioned)
6. Computational Biology & Bioinformatics Laboratory
Faculty members associated: Dr. Sushmita 
Paul, Dr. Pankaj Yadav and Dr. Sucharita 
Dey
Computational Biology and Bioinformatics 
is a rapidly developing multidisciplinary 
field. There has been a great increase in 
the amount of biomedical data over the 
past decade. Along with the expanding 
application of large-scale genomic 
sequencing, other modalities such as 
mobile health (mHealth) data and imaging 
have added to the rise. At the same time, 
computing power and storage capacity 
have continued to increase, allowing us 
to now mine and model biological data with unprecedented ability. The research activities include computational 
modeling of biological processes, computational management of large-scale data sets, database development 
and data-mining, algorithm development and high-performance computing, as well as statistical and mathematical 
analyses.
Groups under this theme
1. Computational Biology Group
Computational Biology Lab (CBL) is established to carry out fundamental and advanced research in the fields of 
computational biology and bioinformatics. Dr. Sushmita Paul’s research group carries out research in multi-omics 
data analysis, development of pattern recognition algorithms for analysing high dimensional biological data, 
analysis of genome variation, development and application of bioinformatics tools. The group is actively involved 
in development of algorithms for identification of miRNA-mRNA modules in various diseases by using multi-omics
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

data. Another important challenge related to multi-omics data analysis is classification of cancer subtypes. In this 
regard, the group has developed an algorithm for effectively classifying the cancer samples into their respective 
sub-types. The group is also involved in functional annotation of genomic variants in the Indian population, sub-
grouping of the Indian population based on genetic variants. The group is also focusing on development of an AI 
based framework to predict patient outcome to treatment based on patient biopsy derived tumour spheroid. The 
group also developed several algorithms/frameworks to identify Type II diabetes genes by judiciously integrating 
gene expression data and protein-protein interaction network data. The CB Lab also conducted an international 
workshop on Recent Advances in Biomedical Data Analysis at Olsztyn, Poland, 2017 (http://ijcrs2017.uwm.edu.
pl/?page_id=190). In 2019, the lab organized a national level workshop on Computational Biology and Bioinformatics 
at IIT Jodhpur (http://home.iitj.ac.in/~sushmitapaul/Workshop2019/). We have developed several algorithms to 
analyze multi-omics data where we have addressed several important biological questions (Paul et al., Scientific 
Reports, 2017, Sharma et al. Scientific Reports, 2019, Paul et al., IEEETCBB2019, Pant et al. JBI, 2019, Paul et al., 
IEEETCBB, 2020, Pant et al. IS:CLS, 2021, Madhumita et al. JIB, 2022, Madhumita et al. CBM, 2022, Madhumita et al. 
Scientific Reports, 2022).
2. Life Science Informatics & Statistics Group
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Recent advancements in technologies have generated huge amounts of biological and clinical data for 
researchers. This wealth of data poses challenges that have never before been confronted. At the heart of these is 
understanding how massive biological data sets are best analyzed to discover new knowledge about the function 
of living systems in health and disease, and how this knowledge can be harnessed to provide improved, more 
affordable health care. To this end, sophisticated tools are needed to manage and analyse such a large volume 
of the data sets. This research group is dedicated to develop advanced statistical and computational methods 
for drawing statistically valid inference from biological and clinical data. Inter-individual differences by large-scale 
statistical modelling and integrating multiple layers of OMICS data are studied. Our group published a review paper 
on advancement in deep learning methods for diagnosis and prognosis of cervical cancer (Kumar et al. 2022). We 
did genome sequences based tracking of SARS-CoV-2 spread in India (Mathur et al. 2021). The design credit project 
developed a platform to allow sharing of biology equipment across India.
3. Structural Bioinformatics Group
Understanding the biological functions of the various protein complexes and their relevance to human health 
depends very much on having a detailed understanding of their structure to the atomic level. With the availability of 
a huge amount of structural data, automated methods are required to curate valuable information. My group work 
at this interface of Computational and Biological Sciences where we develop and use computational techniques 
to understand biology. My group specifically focus on studying genetic variations among the diverse populations 
and hence mutational robustness of proteins, so as to understand disease mechanisms in the context of protein 
structure (specifically protein quaternary structure) variation. This knowledge will be used to improve predictions of 
disease mutations, which is essential to interpreting the growing volumes of information on genetic variation. In the 
future, I foresee that such information will also serve in a broader context such as personalized medicine as it will 
enhance our ability to predict phenotype from genotype. Besides, our research interests include: (i) studying the 
diversity and unveiling novel principles of protein-protein interactions, (ii) protein oligomerization, and evolution, 
(iii) protein Quaternary structure prediction, (iv) determining the determinants of protein robustness to mutation, (v) 
investigating the functional role of protein quaternary structure in mutation and disease, (vi) identifying structural 
determinants of inter-subunit 
communication (Allostery) and 
(vii) designing of molecules 
that act through an allosteric 
transition. We also develop 
web-tools for macromolecule 
structure analysis. In my recent 
projects, I have developed 
novel methods (QSalign, 
QSbio, QSalign-HET) for the 
prediction of the physiological 
QS of proteins (Structure 2021) 
and have built a unified QS 
annotation web-server named 
QSalignWeb (Frontiers in Mol 
Biosc 2022) and protein-DNA 
analysis server named ProDFace 
(Frontiers in Mol Biosc 2022).
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

7. Molecular Motors & Cell Motility Lab
Faculty member associated: Dr. Priyanka Singh
“Almost all aspects of life are engineered at the molecular level, and without understanding molecules we can only 
have a very sketchy understanding of life itself” (Francis Crick, Nobel Laureate). The mechanical work for the cell is 
performed by the molecular motors along the cell cytoskeleton. The thematic group is focused on understanding 
these molecular motors and cell motility in the healthy & diseased states.
Groups under this theme
1. Centrosome Biology Group
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Centrosomes are molecular machineries which are involved in a plethora of cell functions like spindle organization, 
cell migration and cell polarization. Their number, position, organization & functioning is precisely regulated 
in a cell. Any defect in centrosome structure or number could lead to several human diseases like cancer, 
neurodevelopmental disorders and ciliopathies. The Centrosome Biology group is utilizing a combination of cellular, 
molecular and biochemical approaches, in order to understand the molecular details of centrosome organization 
in mammalian cells. The work has provided mechanistic insights in the role of regulatory proteins involved in 
functioning of mitotic cellular machinery (Jaiswal S. et al, 2021; Singh P. et al, 2021; Gallad E. et al., 2020; Jaiswal S. 
2020; Shahid U. et al., 2018). Recent, collaborative work from the group has identified the role of FOX signalling at 
the core of GDF-15 mediated aggressiveness of breast cancer (Modi A. et al., 2022). Further, the group is involved in 
the identification of a novel chemical scaffold which target microtubule cytoskeleton proteins in cancer cells (Jaiswal 
S. et al., 2022; Parida S. K. et al., 2022, Parida S. K. et al., 2021).
8. Neuroscience & Neuroengineering Laboratory
Faculty members associated: Prof. Neeraj Jain, Prof. Surajit Ghosh, Dr. Sushmita Jha and Dr. Amit Mishra
Detailed observation and scientific study of Neuroscience defines the structure and function of the nervous system. 
Major objective of the current thematic lab is to find the answers of hidden challenges linked with the new reports 
that can directly contribute and enhance our current understanding of how the nervous system works. It is also 
critical to understand the molecular defects, repair and restore the neural systems. Neuroengineering research 
targets those complex interface problems of living neural tissues and engineering techniques of non-living 
constructs.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Groups under this theme
1. Cellular & Molecular Neurobiology Unit
Our lab has done significant work in neuronal protein quality control mechanisms involved in neurodegenerative 
diseases. Findings enlighten the precise molecular mechanism of E3 ubiquitin ligases and molecular chaperones, 
their involvement in neuronal quality control pathways, and affect overall neuronal homeostasis. We design a 
different mechanism to modulate the proteasomal functions, inducing autophagy pathways and serving as the anti-
aggregation program of affected cellular proteostasis. Research from our lab proposes that E3 Ubiquitin Ligases 
can act as the first line of defense against proteostasis failure under different protein conformation conditions. 
The group’s significant contributions have substantially added knowledge on the progressing neurobiological 
approaches against multifactorial challenges in neurodegeneration. Shortly, results of our group studies may 
offer the more suitable substitute proteolytic machinery therapeutic strategies to balance the proteostasis for the 
defective events specifically linked with late-onset neurodegenerative diseases and aging.
2. System Neuroscience:
Sense of touch enriches our experience of the World around us, prompting us to seek close contact and reach 
out to touch. Although evolutionarily it is a primitive sense, we do not understand how our brain creates a tactile 
perception from the sensory inputs. Our research work has addressed these questions within two broad themes. 
One, how neurons are organized in information processing networks in different somatosensory and motor 
areas of the mammalian brain. Two, how injuries, particularly spinal cord injuries affect these networks leading to 
brain plasticity. Our lab has used many different technical approaches to address these questions, which include 
electrophysiology (multi-electrode recordings, multiunit mapping and intracortical microstimulation), imaging 
(functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging and 2-Photon), neuroanatomy, and behavioral assessment.
3. Chemical Neuroscience:
Microtubules are key cytoskeleton filaments and established anticancer targets given their crucial role in many 
biochemical processes. However, targeting microtubules for the development of neurotherapeutics are relatively 
unexplored. Our area of research focuses on elucidation of roles of microtubule in neurodegeneration and cancer 
and possible intervention through carefully chosen routes. The lab has published more than 100 research articles in 
front-ranking international journals in the area of Chemical Neuroscience and Medicinal Chemistry.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Microtubules perform a large number of functions in neurons such as cargo transport, neuronal migration, 
maintenance of polarized structures, to name a few. Microtubule stability is not only critical for neuronal polarization 
process fundamental to their development and plasticity but has a crucial role in neurodegenerative diseases. 
For example, in Alzheimer’s disease (AD), microtubule lattice is disrupted due to microtubule-associated tau 
hyperphosphorylation, which compromises the neuronal architecture. He has elucidated the importance of 
microtubule stabilization in neurodegenerative disorders by studying molecular interactions between some 
novel ligands with microtubule lattice (ACS Chem. Neurosci. 2015, 2018, 2018, 2018, 2018, 2018, 2019, 2019, 2019, 
2019, 2020). His group developed a neurosphere-based organoid model generated from primary cortical and 
hippocampal neurons for drug screening platform. These neurospheres possess a heterogeneous population of 
glial cells, neurons, neural stem and progenitor cells, bear a closer resemblance to the human brain (ACS Chem. 
Neurosci. 2018).
Low transfection efficiency and poor reproducibility with existing transfection agents led to the exploration of 
efficient non-viral transfection agents. Amyloidogenic nature of a peptide transfecting agent, Pep1, led to the 
discovery of a non-amyloidogenic tetrapeptide sequence from Pep1 truncation, followed by the study of its cellular 
entry and nuclear localization. Its excellent translocation through the membrane was ascribed to tryptophan, which 
aided nuclear localization through interaction with DNA in the major groove. This study revealed the role of the 
spatial position of tryptophan in regulating cell entry and a new route for new transfection agents for gene/drug 
delivery (J Am Chem Soc. 2018, JACS Young Investigator Virtual Issue by Prof. Peter J Stang).
Repairing of traumatic brain injury (TBI) is an immediate challenge due to the limited regenerative properties of the 
brain. His group is involved in understanding repair mechanism by exogenous application of a neuroprotective 
hydrogel to brain injury region in a cryogenic injury mice model. Speedy recovery of the injury was observed 
through microscopy of brain slices and lower activation of microglia (ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 2017, ACS Chem. 
Neurosci. 2018). The translational value of this work is under investigation through the study of hydrogels in 
neuronal transplantation. Mechanism of chemically-induced trans-differentiation of reactive astrocytes into functional 
neurons and its impact on the global expression of several genes like NeuroD1 and NeuroG2 is in progress (ACS 
Chem Neuroscience, 2018, ACS Biomaterials Science 2020).
4. Inflammation, Immunity and tumour biology
Within this thematic area our research is at the interface of neuroimmune interactions and neuroinflammation. We 
recently discovered Dopamine induced microglia extracellular traps. Dopamine plays a central role in our brain’s 
pleasure and reward systems, movement and cognition, but its role in regulating innate immunity is not clear. 
Our research showed for the first time that dopamine can induce DNA-based extracellular traps in microglia cell 
lines as well as primary human microglia. These extracellular traps are formed independently of reactive oxygen 
species, actin polymerization and cell death. The traps are functional and can capture Escherichia coli even when 
reactive oxygen species or actin polymerization is inhibited. Interestingly, we found microglia extracellular traps 
within Glioblastoma multiforme microenvironment. This is crucial because these tumours are known to secrete 
dopamine but the mechanistic insights to this were largely undiscovered. Our results demonstrate that dopamine 
plays a significant role in neuro-inflammation by inducing microglia extracellular traps paving the way for targeting 
dysregulated neuroinflammation. It would be interesting to explore how these extracellular traps play a role in 
other neurodegenerative and cognitive diseases where dopamine is central to pathophysiology. We have recently 
received funding from the Ministry of electronics and information technology (MEITY) for the development of an 
interdisciplinary research platform for dissecting complex cellular interactions using patient-derived normal and 
tumour spheroids, computational biology and artificial intelligence-based approaches.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

9. Genomics and Systems Biology Laboratory
Groups under this theme
1. Human genomics and integrative medicine group
The Thar provides a large natural laboratory for evolving innovative designs that ensure adaptation and survival of 
its inhabitants, their interdependencies and the conservation of the entire ecosystem. A new initiative of Ecosystem 
genomics has been undertaken where we are developing methods to integrate massive amount of information 
from multi-omic resources to understand patterns in genome that links to Biological intelligence. Genomic of 
human and faunal communities native to the Thar desert have been initiated to gain molecular insights into 
adaptability/adaptation/diseases in arid desert conditions. This would also be useful in another newly emerging 
area of phylo-medicine wherein comparative genomics of organisms that are adapted to similar niches through
Faculty members associated: Dr. Ayan Sadhukan, Dr. Mitali Mukerji, Dr. Shankar Manoharan and Dr. Pankaj Yadav
A major focus of this thematic area is to develop genomic and metagenomic tools /approaches and gain a systems 
biology perspective at the cellular, organismal, population and ecosystem levels. These are anticipated to provide 
deeper insights into the functioning of living systems and communities as a whole. This thematic area encompasses 
diverse areas:
(i) Metagenomic for profiling response of microbiota to environmental exposures
(ii) Long-read sequencing for genomic surveillance of hospital-associated pathogens etc.
(iii) Human genomics for integrative precision medicine
(iv) Single-cell genomics and spatial transcriptomics: method development and applications
(v) Functional genomics of plant abiotic stress tolerance
We aim to integrate genomics with knowledge systems from diverse disciplines including engineering, 
environmental sciences, medicine and local traditional knowledge in a big-data, one health framework. These 
are being applied in several transdisciplinary initiatives of the Institute including Thar DESIGNs, AyurTech, Smart 
Healthcare etc. This would provide insights on networks between the environment and their inhabitants. The 
insights from this area are likely to address different aspects of SDG and ecosystem services in the areas of climate 
change, conservation, disaster management , sustainable agriculture and education.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

shared phenotypic adaptations is being used for understanding the molecular basis of human phenotypes and 
diseases. In addition, Jodhpur provides an ecocline for understanding adaptations in arid environment. We have 
initiated a citizen science based participatory framework for crowdsourcing ecological knowledge. This initiative 
aims to capture the designs of native and non-native environments (flora, fauna, human) and their transitions from 
homeostatic states for early interventions and sustainability. Different technologies and knowledge systems, local 
ecological information are being aggregated and would be analysed in a big data framework. This would provide 
insights on networks between environment and their inhabitants. The stable designs could enable AI based 
recommendation engines for restoration/rewilding. This would address different aspects of ecosystem services in 
the areas of climate change, conservation, disaster management , sustainable agriculture and education. We are 
also carrying out bioprospecting on desert species that are routinely used in traditional medicine systems.
2. Plant functional genomics group
TThe extreme conditions in the Thar desert provide an all-round challenge for the survival of plants, which 
experience a combination of drought, heat, high light intensity, soil salinity, varying pH, UV and nutrient deficiency 
stresses. Understanding plant tolerance mechanisms to environmental stress is of utmost importance to develop 
resilient crops to meet future demand. We use Arabidopsis, the high throughput state-of-the-art model system for 
fundamental research in plant science and Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) as a powerful forward genetic 
approach to unravel the quantitative trait loci (QTLs) or expression QTLs (eQTLs) associated with multiple abiotic 
stress tolerance in plants. We are also tapping the genomes of Thar plants for novel tolerance mechanisms.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Year Number of students
Year Number of students
Year M.Tech-Ph.D. (Number of students) Ph.D. (number of students)
3. Microbial Physiology Lab
The microbial physiology lab employs in-house long-read sequencing to conduct genomic surveillance for hospital-
associated pathogens in collaboration with AIIMS Jodhpur to identify new virulence determinants and antibiotic 
resistance genes in circulation. In addition, we also use metagenomic approaches to understand the impact 
of environment and exposures on the human gut microbiota. We also study biological soil crusts, ecosystem 
engineers of the Thar grasslands, which perform key functions in the ecosystem. Formed by a complex community 
of microbes, these crusts perform key functions for the ecosystem. They could also contain biomolecules and 
biomaterials with unique properties that can be bioprospected.
4. Biological data science group: (Description aforementioned)
Academic Programs offered by the department
A. Name of the Programme: B.Tech (in Bioengineering)
B. Name of the Programme: M.Tech Bioengineering
B. Name of the Programme: M.Tech-Ph.D dual degree and PhD (in Bioscience and Bioengineering)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Faculty Name Patent Number Name of patent Patent Authority Status
Sushmita Jha 201811017208 Development of a portable,
low-cost hypoxia chamber Indian Patent Authority Pending
Meenu Chhabra 202211028952 Onsite CO2 capture from
industrial gaseous emissions Indian Patent Authority Pending
Sushmita Paul US 2018235487
EP 3366203 A1
20180829 (EN)
TEMP/
E1/6660/2017MUM Method and system for
non-invasive, cuffless blood
pressure estimation using
photo-plethysmogram
features and pulse transit time US Patent Authority
European Patent
Authority
Indian Patent Authority Pending
Dinesh K.
Ahirwar US 9885031 A galvanotaxis assay for
quantitative assessment of
the metastatic potential of
cancer cells US Patent and trademark
office Awarded
Induced electric field therapy
for treatment of solid cancers US Patent and trademark
office Pending
Raviraj Vankayala US 20140074009 Method of generating Singlet
Oxygen US Patent and trademark
office Awarded
Surajit Ghosh PCT Application
No. (2021) PCT/
IN2021/050432. RAPID DENGUE VIRUS
DETECTION SYSTEM..
Published. US patent Granted
Research Achievements
Patents
Publications
Amit Mishra
1.	

Dubey, A. R., Patwa, S. M., Kinger, S., Jagtap, Y. 
A., Kumar, P., Singh, S., ... & Mishra, A Improper 
Proteostasis: Can It Serve as Biomarkers for 
Neurodegenerative Diseases?. 1-20 2022 
Molecular Neurobiology. DOI: 10.1007/s12035-022-
02775-w)
2. 
Ojha, R., Gurjar, K., Ratnakar, T. S., Mishra, A., & 
Prajapati, V. K. Designing of a bispecific antibody 
against SARS-CoV-2 spike glycoprotein targeting 
human entry receptors DPP4 and ACE2 83(4), 
346-355 2022 Human immunology. DOI: 10.1016/j.
humimm.2022.01.004)
3. 
Indari, O., Jakhmola, S., Pathak, D. K., Tanwar, M., 
Kandpal, M., Mishra, A., ... & Jha, H. C. Comparative
Account of Biomolecular Changes Post Epstein Barr 
Virus Infection of the Neuronal and Glial Cells Using 
Raman Microspectroscopy 2022 ACS Chemical 
Neuroscience. DOI: 10.1021/acschemneuro.2c00081
4. 
Singh, A., Gupta, P., Tiwari, S., Mishra, A., & Singh, 
S Guanabenz mitigates the neuropathological 
alterations and cell death in Alzheimer’s disease 
388(2),239-258. 2022 Cell and Tissue Research. 
DOI: 10.1007/s00441-021-03570-0
5. 
Jain, N., Sk, M. F., Mishra, A., Kar, P., & Kumar, 
A. Identification of novel efflux pump inhibitors 
for Neisseria gonorrhoeae via multiple ligand-
based pharmacophores, e-pharmacophore, 
molecular docking, density functional theory, and 
molecular dynamics approaches. 98, 107682. 2022
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Computational Biology and Chemistry. DOI: 10.1016/j.
compbiolchem.2022.107682
6. 
Singh, S., Kumar, K., Panda, M., Srivastava, A., 
Mishra, A., & Prajapati, V. K. High-throughput 
virtual screening of small-molecule inhibitors 
targeting immune cell checkpoints to discover new 
immunotherapeutics for human diseases 1-23 2022 
Molecular Diversity DOI: 10.1007/s11030-022-10452-
2
7.	

Shubhangini Tiwari, Parul Gupta, Abhishek Singh, 
Swati Chaturvedi, M. Wahajuddin, Amit Mishra and 
Sarika Singh (2022) 4-Phenylbutyrate Mitigates 
the Motor Impairment and Dopaminergic Neuronal 
Death During Parkinson’s Disease Pathology 
via Targeting VDAC1 Mediated Mitochondrial 
Function and Astrocytes Activation. Neurochemical 
Research. DOI: 10.1007/s11064-022-03691-0)
Meenu Chhabra
1.	

A Sharma, M Chhabra (2021) Performance 
evaluation of a photosynthetic microbial 1fuel 
cell (PMFC) using Chlamydomonas reinhardtii at 
cathode Bioresource Technology 338, 125499
2. 
A Sharma, S Gajbhiye, S Chauhan, M Chhabra 
(2021) Effect of cathodic culture on wastewater 
treatment and power generation in a photosynthetic 
sediment microbial fuel cell (SMFC): Canna indica 
v/s Chlorella vulgaris Bioresource Technology 340, 
125645
3. 
A Mishra, R Kumar, A Khandelwal, P Lama, 
M Chhabra, RK Metre (2021) Hemi Labile 
Intramolecular N→ Sn Coordination in a Diorganotin 
(IV) Sulfide [R2Sn (µ-S)] 2 (R= 2-phenylazophenyl) 
Complex: Synthesis, Structure, DFT-NBO and 
Antibacterial Studies Polyhedron 205, 115302
4. 
A Khandelwal, K Dhindhoria, A Dixit, M Chhabra 
(2021) Superiority of activated graphite/CuO 
composite electrode over Platinum based 
electrodes as cathode in algae assisted microbial 
fuel cell Environmental Technology & Innovation, 
101891
5. 
A Mishra, A Batar, R Kumar, A Khandelwal, P Lama, 
M Chhabra, RK Metre (2021) Assembly of Di-,
Tetra-and Hexanuclear Organostannoxanes Using 
Hemi Labile Intramolecular N→ Sn Coordination: 
Synthesis, Structure, DFT and Antibacterial Studies. 
Polyhedron 209, 115487
Sushmita Jha
1.	

Agrawal I, Sharma N, Saxena S, Arvind S, 
Chakraborty D, Chakraborty DB, Jha D, Ghatak 
S, Epari S, Gupta T, Jha S. Protocol for induction 
and characterization of microglia extracellular 
traps in murine and human microglia cells Jul 
20;2(3):100678. 2021 STAR Protocols
2. 
Agrawal I, Sharma N, Saxena S, Arvind S, 
Chakraborty D, Chakraborty DB, Jha D, Ghatak 
S, Epari S, Gupta T, Jha S. Dopamine induces 
functional extracellular traps in microglia 2021 Jan 
6;24(1):101968. 2021 iScience.
3. 
Sushmita Jha, Shalini Singh, Shivanjali Saxena, Nidhi 
Sharma, Ishan Agrawal, Rukmini Govekar, Pranali 
Panchal, Epari Sridhar, Tejpal Gupta Understanding 
NLRs and AIM2 cellular and molecular signalling in 
glioblastoma pathophysiology 109.10-109.10 2021 
The Journal of Immunology
4. 
Shivanjali Saxena, Sushmita Jha ROS at the 
Intersection of Inflammation and Immunity in 
Cancer, Handbook of Oxidative Stress in Cancer: 
Mechanistic Aspects. Springer, Singapore. 
1-18 2021 Handbook of Oxidative Stress in 
Cancer: Mechanistic Aspects Ebook: https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-981-15-4501-6_64-1. Online ISBN 
978-981-15-4501-6
Raviraj Vankayala
1.	

Vincy, A., Mazumder, S., Banerjee, I., Hwang, K. 
C., & Vankayala, R. Recent Progress in Red Blood 
Cells-Derived Particles as Novel Bioinspired Drug 
Delivery Systems: Challenges and Strategies for 
Clinical Translation 2022 Frontiers in Chemistry
2. 
N Hiremath, R Kumar, KC Hwang, I Banerjee, 
S Thangudu, R Vankayala. Near-infrared light 
activatable two-dimensional nanomaterials for 
theranostic applications: A comprehensive review. 
2022 ACS Applied Nano Materials 5 (2), 1719-1733
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

3. 
Tang, J. C., Lee, C. H., Lu, T., Vankayala, R., Hanley, 
T., Azubuogu, C., ... & Anvari, B. Membrane 
Cholesterol Enrichment of Red Blood Cell-Derived 
Microparticles Results in Prolonged Circulation. 5(2), 
650-660 2022 ACS Applied Bio Materials
Ayan Sadhukan
1.	

Kumar S, Das M, Sadhukhan A, Sahoo L (2022) 
Identification of differentially expressed mungbean 
miRNAs and their targets in response to drought 
stress by small RNA deep sequencing. Current 
Plant Biology 30: 100246. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
cpb.2022.100246
Priyanka Singh
1.	

Kasera, H., Kumar, S., & Singh, P. Yeast 2-hybrid 
assay for investigating the interaction between the 
centrosome proteins PLK4 and STIL. Methods in 
Cell Biology, 2022, 169, pp. 97–114.
2. 
Modi, A., Purohit, P., Roy, D., Vishnoi, J. R., Pareek, 
P., Elhence, P., Singh P., Sharma S., Sharma P. 
and Misra, S. FOXM1 mediates GDF-15 dependent 
stemness and intrinsic drug resistance in breast 
cancer Molecular Biology Reports, 2022, 49, 2877-
2888.
3. 
Parida S.,K., Jaiswal S., Singh P*, Murarka S.* 
Multicomponent synthesis of biologically relevant 
S-aryl dithiocarbamates using diaryliodonium salts. 
Organic Letters, 2021, 23, 16, 6401–6406.
Sucharita Dey
1.	

Dey S, Prilusky J, Levy ED. QSalignWeb: A Server to 
Predict and Analyze Protein Quaternary Structure 
8:787510. 2022 Front Mol Biosci
2. 
Dey S, Levy ED*. PDB-wide identification of 
physiological hetero-oligomeric assemblies based 
on conserved quaternary structure geometry 
29(11):1303-1311 2021 Structure
Sudipta Bhattacharyya
1.	

Haider M., Anand V., Enaythullah M. G., Parekh, Y., 
Ram S., Kumari S., Panda G., Shukla M., Dholakia, D., 
Ray A., Bhattacahryya S., Sharma U., Bokara K. K., 
Prasher B., Mukerji M .٭Anti-SARS-CoV-2 potential
of Cissampelos pareira L. identified by connectivity 
map-based analysis and in vitro studies. BMC 
complement. med. Ther. (2022), 22, 114 - 123.
2. 
Jain A., Maji S., Shukla K., Kumari A., Garg S., Metre 
R. K, Bhattacharyya S ,٭Rana N. K .٭Stereoselective 
synthesis of tri-substituted tetrahydrothiophenes 
and their in silico binding against mycobacterial 
protein tyrosine phosphatase B. Org Biomol Chem. 
(2022), 20, 3124 - 3135.
3. 
Singh B. K., Biswas R., Bhattacharyya S., Basak 
A., Das A. K. The C-terminal end of mycobacterial 
HadBC regulates AcpM interaction during the FAS-
II pathway: a structural perspective. FEBS J. (2022) 
(Ahead of Print).
4. 
Chavan K. A., Shukla M., SinghChauhan A. N., Maji 
S., Mali G., Bhattacharyya S., and Erande R. D., 
Effective Synthesis and Biological Evaluation of 
Natural and Designed Bis(indolyl)methanes via 
Taurine-Catalyzed Green Approach, ACS. Omega, 
(2022), 7, 10438–10446.
5. 
Mali G., Shaikh B. A., Garg S., Kumar A., 
Bhattacharyya S., Erande R. D., and Chate A.V., 
Design, Synthesis, and Biological Evaluation of 
Densely Substituted Dihydropyrano[2,3-c]pyrazoles 
via a Taurine-Catalyzed Green Multicomponent 
Approach, ACS. Omega, (2021), 6, 30734 - 30742.
Indarnil Banerjee
1.	

K Dixit, S Kulanthaivel, T Agarwal, K Pal, S Giri, 
TK Maiti, I Banerjee. Gum tragacanth modified 
nano-hydroxyapatite: An angiogenic-osteogenic 
biomaterial for bone tissue engineering. Ceramics 
International. 2022 48 (10), 14672-14683
2. 
N Hiremath, R Kumar, KC Hwang, I Banerjee, 
S Thangudu, R Vankayala. Near-infrared light 
activatable two-dimensional nanomaterials for 
theranostic applications: A comprehensive review. 
2022 ACS Applied Nano Materials 5 (2), 1719-1733
3. 
D Bharti, D Kim, MA Cerqueira, B Mohanty, SK 
Habibullah, I Banerjee, Effect of biodegradable 
hydrophilic and hydrophobic emulsifiers on the 
oleogels containing sunflower wax and sunflower 
oil. Gels 2021 7 (3), 133
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

4. 
S Kulanthaivel, T Agarwal, VSS Rathnam, K Pal, 
I Banerjee. Cobalt doped nano-hydroxyapatite 
incorporated gum tragacanth-alginate beads as 
angiogenic-osteogenic cell encapsulation system 
for mesenchymal stem cell based bone tissue 
engineering. International Journal of Biological 
Macromolecules 2021 179, 101-115.
Neha Jain
1.	

Khambhati K, Patel J, Saxena V, A P, Jain N* (2021). 
Gene Regulation of Biofilm-Associated Functional 
Amyloids. Pathogens. 10(4):490. https://doi.
org/10.3390/pathogens10040490.
Mitali Mukerji
1.	

Prakrithi P, Singhal K, Sharma D, Jain A, Bhoyar RC, 
Imran M,..& Mukerji M An Alu insertion map of the 
Indian population: identification and analysis in 1021 
genomes of the IndiGen project 4(1) 2022 NAR 
Genom Bioinform (Not available on Scopus list)
2. 
Pathak AK, Mishra GP, Uppili B, Walia S, Fatihi S, 
Abbas T, Banu S, Ghosh A, Kanampalliwar A, Jha A, 
Fatma S, Aggarwal S,..& Mukerji M Spatio-temporal 
dynamics of intra-host variability in SARS-CoV-2 
genomes 50(3):1551-1561 2022 Nucleic Acids Res
3. 
Abbas T, Chaturvedi G, Prakrithi P, Pathak AK, 
…,Mukerji M & Prasher B. Whole Exome Sequencing 
in Healthy Individuals of Extreme Constitution 
Types Reveals Differential Disease Risk: A Novel 
Approach towards Predictive Medicine 12(3):489. 
2022 J Pers Med
4. 
Dholakia D, Kalra A, Misir BR, Kanga U, Mukerji M. 
HLA-SPREAD: a natural language processing based 
resource for curating HLA association from PubMed 
abstracts. BMC Genomics. 2022 Jan 7;23(1):10. doi: 
10.1186/s12864-021-08239-0.
5. 
Prakrithi P, Lakra P, Sundar D, Kapoor M, Mukerji 
M, Gupta I, The Indian Genome Variation 
Consortium.Genetic Risk Prediction of COVID-19 
Susceptibility and Severity in the Indian Population. 
Front Genet. 2021 Oct 11;12:714185. doi: 10.3389/
fgene.2021.714185. eCollection 2021.
6. 
Haider M, Dholakia D, Panwar A, Garg P, Gheware 
A, Singh D, Singhal K, Burse SA, Kumari S, Sharma 
A, Ray A, Medigeshi GR, Sharma U, Prasher B, 
Mukerji M. Transcriptome analysis and connectivity 
mapping of Cissampelos pareira L. provides 
molecular links of ESR1 modulation to viral inhibition. 
Sci Rep. 2021 Oct 11;11(1):20095. doi: 10.1038/s41598-
021-99444-0.
Neeraj Jain
1.	

Leslee Lazar, Prem Chand, Radhika Rajan, Hisham 
Mohammed and Neeraj Jain (2022). Somatosensory 
Cortex of Macaque Monkeys is Designed for 
Opposable Thumb. Cerebral Cortex: bhac061
Sushmita Paul
1.	

Sojit Tomo, Saikiran Gangam, Mithu Banerjee, and 
Sushmita Paul, Selenium to Selenoproteins – Role 
in COVID -19, EXCLI Journal, 20, pp. 781--791, 2021.
Surajit Ghosh
1.	

Mukherjee, N., Roy, R., Ghosh, S., & Ghosh, S. Self‐
Assembled Antimitotic Peptide Vesicle Designed 
from α, β‐Tubulin Heterodimer Interface for 
Anticancer Drug Delivery e202200019 2022 . Israel 
Journal of Chemistry
2. 
Mishra, S., Kachhawa, P., Mondal, P., Ghosh, S., 
Tripura, C., & Chaturvedi, N AlGaN/GaN HEMT 
Based Biosensor for Detection of the HER2 Antigen 
Spiked in Human Serum 2022 IEEE Transactions 
on Electron Devices
3. 
Barman, S., Ghosh, S., Roy, R., Gupta, V., Ghosh, 
S., & Ghosh, S A potent estrogen receptor and 
microtubule specific purine-benzothiazole-based 
fluorescent molecular probe induces apoptotic 
death of breast cancer cells 12(1), 1-17. 2022 
Scientific Reports
4. 
Ghosh, S., & Ghosh, S Exosome: The “Off-the-Shelf” 
Cellular Nanocomponent as a Potential Pathogenic 
Agent, a Disease Biomarker, and Neurotherapeutics 
13 2022 Frontiers in pharmacology
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

5. 
Pakhira, M., Ghosh, S., Ghosh, S., Chatterjee, D. 
P., & Nandi, A. K Development of poly (vinylidene 
fluoride) graft random copolymer membrane for 
antifouling and antimicrobial applications 112:171-
181 2022 Journal of Industrial and Engineering 
Chemistry
6. 
Mondal, P., Mohapatra, S., Bhunia, D., Gharai, P. K., 
Mukherjee, N., Gupta, V., ... & Ghosh, S. Designed 
hybrid anticancer nuclear-localized peptide inhibits 
aggressive cancer cell proliferation 13(2), 196-201 
2022 RSC Medicinal Chemistry
7.	

Surajit Ghosh, Nabanita Mukherjee, Satyajit Ghosh, 
Rajsekhar Roy A potential biocompatible wound 
healing material 2022
8. 
Rathnam Mallesh, Juhee Khan, Krishnangsu 
Pradhan, Rajsekhar Roy, Nihar. R. Jana, 
Parasuraman Jaisankar, Surajit Ghosh. Design and 
Development of Benzothiazole-Based Fluorescent 
Probes for Selective Detection of Aβ Aggregates 
in Alzheimer’s Disease 2022 ACS Chemical 
Neuroscience.
9. 
Heera Ram, Chandra kala, Karishma Sen, Anita 
Sakarwal, Jaykaran Charan, Paras Sharma, 
Rajsekhar Roy, Surajit Ghosh. In-vitro and in-silico 
determinations of HMG-CoA reductase inhibition 
potential of caffeic acid for therapeutics of 
hypercholesterolemia 12(1); 190-198, 2022 Journal 
of Applied Pharmaceutical Science.
10. 
Soumi Sukla, Prasenjit Mondal, Subhajit Biswas, 
Surajit Ghosh. A Rapid and Easy-to-Perform Method 
of Nucleic-Acid Based Dengue Virus Diagnosis 
Using Fluorescence-Based Molecular Beacons 
11(12), 479. 2021 Biosensor
11. 
Batakrishna Jana, Surajit Barman, Rajsekhar Roy, 
Gaurav Das, Nabanita Mukherjee, Anindyasundar 
Adak, Surajit Ghosh. Fluorine Substituted 
Proline Enhances Tubulin Binding Potential of 
a Tetrapeptide at GTP Binding Pocket Causing 
Inhibition of Microtubule Motility and Antimitotic 
Effect 125, 31, 8768–8780. 2021. The Journal of 
Physical Chemistry B
12. 
Tanaya Chatterjee, Gaurav Das, Surajit Ghosh and 
Pinak Chakrabarti. Effect of Gold Nanoparticles 
on the Structure and Neuroprotective Function of 
Protein L-isoaspartyl methyltransferase (PIMT) 11, 
14296. 2021. Nature Scientific Reports
13. 
Saswat Mohapatra, Varsha Gupta, Prasenjit 
Mondal,Shreyam Chatterjee,Debmalya Bhunia,and 
Surajit Ghosh. Small Molecule with Bridged 
Carbonyl and Tri‐fluoro‐aceto‐phenone Groups 
Impedes Microtubule Dynamics and Subsequently 
Triggers Cancer Cell Apoptosis	16, 2703-2714.	
2021. ChemMedChem
14. 
Saswat Mohapatra, Gaurav Das, Varsha Gupta, 
Prasenjit Mondal, Masashi Nitani, Yutaka Ie, 
Shreyam Chatterjee, Yoshio Aso, Surajit Ghosh.	
Power of organic electron acceptor in modulation 
of intracellular mitochondrial ROS: Induces JNK and 
caspase dependent apoptosis of cancer cells. 11, 
7815–7828. 2021. ACS
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start Date End Date
1 Development of low cost Microbial
Carbon capture (MCC) cells for
algae cultivation and powers
generation DBT Meenu
Chabbra H77,59,923 24-Dec-14 31-Mar-21
2 Hospital-associated ESKAPE
pathogens: Unraveling novel
regulatory layers controlling
virulence and persistence The
Wellcome
Trust/
DBT India
Alliance Shankar
Manoharan H1,64,88,993 17-Jan-18 31-Aug-22
3 Role of Centriole Protein, CPAP in
neurodevelopmental disorder SERB Priyanka Singh H38,74,312 28-Nov-18 27-Nov-21
4 Modulation of a-Synuclein Amyloid
Assemblt by Human Chaperone-like
Proteins SERB Neha Jain H41,00,026 22-May-19 21-May-22
5 Genomelndia: Cataloguing the
genetic Variation in Indians DBT Sushmita Paul H1,15,00,000 28-Feb-20 27-Feb-23
6 Elucidating the role of centrosome
protein CEP152 in primary
microcephaly DBT Priyanka Singh H59,50,240 27-Feb-20 26-Feb-23
7 Multimodal Approach for Repairing
of Brain Damage: Small Molecule
Mediated Neurogenesis from
Stem Cells and Transplantation
of Regenerated Neurons through
Novel Scaffolds SERB Surajit Ghosh H2,79,57,120 30-Mar-20 29-Mar-23
8 Systems Biology and Network
Analysis for Enabling Research in
Personalized Genomics MHRD Sushmita Paul N/A 20-Mar-20 N/A
9 Multimodal Approaches to Develop
Potential Therapeutic Leads
Targeting Molecular Hot Spots of
Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy for
Clinical Trial SERB Surajit Ghosh H3,89,00,910 23-Jun-20 22-Jun-25
10 Understanding The Molecular
Specific Scales of Tumor
Suppressor Gene 101 (tsg101)
enclosed LRSAM1 E3 Ubiquitin
Ligase in The Elimination of
Polyglutamine Proteins BRNS Amit Mishra H26,34,000 19-Oct-20 18-Oct-23
Projects
Sponsored Research Projects
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start Date End Date
11 Deciphering Molecular Mechanism
of Action and Electron Acceptor
Specificity Through structure
based functional characterization
of staphylococcal glutathione
peroxidase enzymes SERB-SRG Sudipta
Bhattachrayya H30,78,460 07-Dec-20 06-Dec-22
12 Reconstitution of Microenvironment
of Brain using Advanced Prototype-
based Microfluidic System for
Neuro-organoid Culture and
Monitoring the Synapse Formation SERB- STAR Surajit Ghosh H38,50,000 22-Dec-20 21-Dec-23
13 Palladium-catalyzed synthesis
of novel heterocycles for the
development of potent tubulin
polymerization inhibitors. SERB- NPDF Surajit Ghosh H20,25,600 03-Dec-20 02-Dec-22
14 Role of Centrosome Protein STIL in
Cancer BRNS Priyanka Singh H21,88,900 19-Jun-21 18-Jun-24
15 Dual Targeted Chemical
Modulator Inhibits Nmda
Receptor and Promotes Ngf
Mediated Neuroprotection:
Towards Development of Potent
Antialzheimers's Therapeutics CSIR Surajit Ghosh H15,14,000 03-Jun-21 02-Jun-24
16 Seeing The Unseen: The Microbial
Community National
Centre for
Biological
Sciences Neha Jain H70,000 30-Nov-21 31-Dec-22
17 Thar-DESIGNS (Desert EcoSystem
Innovations Guided by Nature and
Selection) Jodhpur
City
Knowledge
and
Innovation
Cluster Mitali Mukerji H30,00,000 Grant not
received Grant not
received
18 Biocompatible and water
dispersible salinized reduced
graphene oxide derivatives: Near
infrared responsive bimodal
phototherapeutic agents for the
disruption of bacterial biofilms SERB-CRG Indranil
Banerjee H54,82,400 10-Dec-21 09-Dec-24
19 Cellulose nanocrystal reinforced
pH-responsive PVA-gum tragacanth
based proangiogenic smart wound
dressings for diabetic foot care DST-Indo-
Thailand Indranil
Banerjee H7,30,000 27-Oct-21 26-May-22
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start Date End Date
20 Siemens-supported Pre-incubation
incentive program for Medical
Technology Students Siemens
India Pvt Ltd Sushmita Jha H21,00,000 23-Feb-22 22-Jun-24
S.
No Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start Date End Date
1 Workshop on Computational
Biology and Bioinformatics SERB-IITJ Sushmita Paul H2,70,000 26-Jun-19 25-Dec-19
2 Bioengineering Solution for
healthcare, food, Energy Registration
Fee from
Participants Meenu
Chabbra H75,000 04-Mar-21 10-Apr-21
3 Multi-omics Data Science AICTE-ATAL Pankaj Yadav H93,000 30-Nov-21 28-Feb-22
4 Training Program in current
trend in R&D modern scientific
advances & technology for scientific
understanding & promotion of
Ayush Systems for Ayush Doctors/
Scientists Ministry of
Ayush Mitali Mukerji H9,00,000 26-Mar-22 25-Mar-23
Sl.
No. Project
No. Project Title Sponsoring
Agency Category
of Project Principal
Investigator Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start
Date Duration
/ Expiry
Date Date of
Actual
Closure
1 S/DBT/SJ/
2017 0010 Expression
analysis of
inflammasome-
forming NLRs
in gliomas for
identification of
novel therapeutic
interventions DBT Sponsored
Research
Project Sushmita
Jha H42,15,000 6-Sep-
17 5-Sep-20
Other Projects
Closed Projects
Outcome: The research is focused on characterization of mRNA and protein expression of NLRs 
(Nucleotide-binding domain, leucine-rich repeat containing, proteins) and NLR associated molecules in 
glioma tissues, and characterization of alteration in NLR associated signaling in glioma cells. Despite the 
critical role of NLRs in cancers, the physiological and functional significance of NLRs in gliomas remain 
largely unknown. In this regard, this study provides basic insights into (NLR) and NLR-associated gene 
regulation in LGG and GBM. This study utilizes bioinformatics and experimental data from human brain 
tissues of glioma and normal brain tissue to report for the first time, the differential expression of NLRs and 
NLR-associated genes in different grades of glioma. Importantly this study is the first to report NLRP12 as a 
prognostic marker of glioblastoma with differential cell specific roles in cell proliferation and migration.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Name of
Faculty Title of the Project Funding Agency Sanctioned
amount in lakhs
Amit Mishra Understanding the molecular specific scales of tumor
suppressor gene 101 (tsg 101) encoded LRSAM1 E3
Ubiquitin Ligase in the elimination of Polyglutamine
Proteins. BRNS/BARC 26.34
Dinesh K.
Ahirwar Casein Kinase-1 epsilon as a novel therapeutic target
against small cell lung cancer Department of
Defense, USA 124
Inhibition of RET proto-oncogene as a novel immune-
based strategy against SCLC Department of
Defense, USA 124
Indranil
Banerjee Edible emul-gel based novel cost effective formulation
for colon targeted synbiotic drug delivery DBT/BIG 50
Cellulose nanocrystals reinforced pH responsive PVA
gum tragacanth based proangiogenic smart wound
dressings for diabetic foot care. DST/Indo-Thailand 7.30
Meenu
Chhabra Bioengineering Solutions for Healthcare, Food, energy
and environment BRSI 0.75
Algae mediated carbon capture from exhaust gases CETSD, IIT Jodhpur 8
Mitali Mukerji Joint Co-ordinator and Principal Investigator in Thar-
DESIGNS (Desert EcoSystem Innovations Guided by
Nature and Selection) PSA supported
Jodhpur City
Knowledge Innovation
Cluster (JCKIC) 30
Capacity building and CME in Ayush component of
AYurgyan Scheme AYUSH 10
Neha Jain Modulation of α-synuclein amyloid assembly by human
chaperone-like proteins. SERB 41
Seeing the Unseen: The Microbial Community NCBS 1
Pankaj Yadav Investigation of genome-wide gene-environment
interactions in relation to complex diseases following
case-only approach IIT Jodhpur, Research
Initiation Grant 10
Priyanka
Singh Role of Centrosome Protein STIL in Cancer BRNS, DAE, India 21.90
Elucidating the Role of Centrosome Protein CEP152 in
Primary Microcephaly DBT, India 59.50
Raviraj
Vankayala Biomimetic nanoscale metal organic frameworks for
targeted near infrared fluorescence imaging and
phototherapeutic destruction of intraperitoneal tumors DBT/Ramalingaswami 42.5
Shankar
Manoharan Hospital associated ESKAPE pathogens: Unraveling
novel regulatory layers controlling virulence and
persistence DBT/Wellcome Trust
India Alliance (Early
Career Fellowship) 164.88
Evaluation of the effect of salicylate on capsule
synthesis by virulent Klebsiella pneumoniae IIT Jodhpur, Research
Initiation Grant 25
Faculty / Department Laurels
Ongoing Grants
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Name of
Faculty Title of the Project Funding Agency Sanctioned
amount in lakhs
Sucharita Day Harnessing protein quaternary structure to unveil new
principles of mutational robustness and allostery DBT/ Ramalingaswami 42.5
Sudipta
Bhattacharya Deciphering Molecular Mechanism of Action and
Electron Acceptor Specificity Through structure
based functional characterization of staphylococcal
glutathione peroxidase enzymes SERB 30
Structure based functional characterization of
Staphylococcal thiol peroxidase enzymes: A new
hunch for anti-Staphylococcal drug discovery IIT Jodhpur, Research
Initiation Grant 25
Surajit Ghosh Fluorescence Probes for Detection of Amyloid Plaque IIT Jodhpur, Research
Initiation Grant 25
Muc-1 receptor targeted nano-liposome containing
peptide-drug-nanocage for breast cancer and cancer
stem cell DBT, India 17.54
Multimodal Approaches to Develop Potential
Therapeutic Leads Targeting Molecular Hot Spots of
Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy for Clinical Trial SERB 389
Name of the
Faculty Achievements Year of the
Achievement
Mitali Mukerji Fellow of National Academy of Science, India 2021
Amit Mishra Selected “Executive Board Member” Indian Academy of Neuroscience (IAN)
India 2022
Coveted Honour Malaviya Memorial Award-BIOTECH RESEARCH SOCIETY
OF INDIA (BRSI) Fellow of Royal Society of Biology, London, UK 2021
Sushmita Jha Kusum Sharma Award for a Young Woman Scientist, Indian Academy of
Biomedical Sciences 2021
Indian Society of Neuro-Oncology “President's Award for Outstanding Work in
Neuro-Oncology” 2022
Priyanka Singh “Young Scientist Research Award” from the Board of Research in Nuclear
Sciences (BRNS), Department of Atomic Energy, Government of India. 2021
Meenu Chhabra Prof. Indira Parikh 50 Women in Education Leaders by World Education
Congress 2022. 2022
Pankaj Yadav Invited Editor, Human and Medical Genomics, Frontiers in Genetics 2021
Raviraj Vankayala Topic Editor for Frontiers in Nanotechnology journal for a special issue entitled
“Multifunctional Nanomaterials for Biosensors and Therapeutics”. 2021
Guest Editor in MDPI Nanomaterials journal for a special issue entitled
“Advances in Nanomaterials Mediated Photodynamic Therapy”. 2021
Regular member of Royal Society of Chemistry. 2021
Recipient of Research Excellence Award at IIT Jodhpur. 2021
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Name of the
Faculty Achievements Year of the
Achievement
Dinesh Kumar
Ahirwar Special Issue Editor in journal Cancers. 2021
Guest Associate Editor in Frontiers in Immunology 2021
Guest Editor in Frontiers in Cell and Developmental Biology 2021
Neha Jain Early Career Review Board member for Journal of Biological Chemistry 2022
Student Laurels
The department initiated its current, flagship B. Tech. program in Bioengineering in the year 2019 with a curriculum 
that was built after extensive consultation with industry, academia, entrepreneurs and foresight experts. The 
first batch of students following this new curriculum are set to graduate in 2023. The class of 2022 (B.Tech. 
in Biotechnology), were also given the option to build their own B.Tech. programs by selecting departmental 
specializations / minors, a key feature of the new curriculum. In alignment with the expected graduate attributes, 
the B. Tech. students under this programme have taken various internships and industrial training in various 
capacities. While some of them have interned at start-ups and industries, others have pursued academic research 
internships in reputed national institutions. It is a matter of pride to the Department that the class of 2022, B.Tech. in 
Biotechnology has also achieved 100% on campus placement.
Our student Ms. Riddhi Sera (2019-23 batch) was selected for the prestigious Mitacs Globalink research internship 
program at the University of Toronto, where she worked on machine learning models in computational genomics 
under the supervision of Prof. Michael Hoffman.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Some of our students have participated in meetings 
and national level competitions, which not only 
challenges them to think critically and design innovative 
solutions but also communicate them effectively so 
that they can be appreciated by a larger audience. 
The B. Tech students also carried out several design 
credit projects and B.Tech. projects both at the inter- 
and intra-department levels which provided them with 
the opportunities to use trans-disciplinary knowledge 
and training in designing engineering solutions to 
solve technical problems in the field of bioscience 
and bioengineering. Some examples of such projects 
where problems across various domains addressed 
innovatively by our students as part of their BTPs and 
Design projects include:
1.	

Gloves for suppression of Parkinsons disease 
tremors using Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation 
(Pushpank Katare, Class of 2022, Part of a team that 
secured 1st place in the 7th Inter IIT Tech meet)
2. 
Tool for diagnosis of diabetic retinopathy (Arushi 
Midha & Pradyumn Verma, Class of 2022, BTP)
3. 
A web tool for personalized portfolio and finance 
management (Mukul Kumar Babra and team, Class 
of 2022, BTP)
4. 
Secure and effective sharing of healthcare 
information using blockchain technology (Aman 
Pratap Singh, Class of 2022, BTP)
The students actively participate in different institute and department level societies which reflect on their ability to 
work in a team. Some of our students are contributing in key leadership positions in student councils, boards and 
societies. Our students have also demonstrated teamwork within and across departments in their final projects 
as well as design credit projects. Some students have led their teams, while others have worked as a contributing 
member. Around 30-40 % students have opted for design projects and BTPs from other departments along with 
their peers from other departments highlighting their interdisciplinary mindset in solving problems.
Figure showing different internship opportunities undertaken by undergraduate students of 
B.Tech Bioengineering in the year 2021-22
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

5. 
Structure guided therapeutic lead discovery against 
drug resistant pathogen (Diya Chirag Sankhla and 
Komalla Vennella, Class of 2022, BTP)
6. 
Multi-OMICS integrative analysis of Non-Insulin 
Dependent Diabetes Mellitus (Piyush Mathur and 
Kshitij Thakur, Class of 2022, BTP)
7.	

Deep learning in genome-wide association studies 
(Archit Dwivedi, Class of 2022, BTP)
8. 
Design and development of an Android App 
for exploring the local biodiversity through 
crowdsourced digital archiving (Gaurav Sen and 
Chinmay Borale, Class of 2023, DP)
9. 
Digitizing RTI applications (Sarthak Vasan, Class of 
2023, DP)
10.
 
Development of a Crowdsourced participatory 
medicine framework in COVID using BigData 
science frameworks of NLP and digital humanities 
(Aman Prakash and Addepalli Bharat Sai, Akshansh 
Verma , Abir Roy, Class of 2023, DP; along with CSE 
and EE students )
11. 
Function annotation of primate specific Alu repeats 
from large scale genomics and transcriptomic 
data using computer vision and other AI/ML based 
approaches for elucidation of primate specific 
regulatory networks (Divyanshi Jagetiya Class of 
2023; Dheemant Jallepalli; Khyati Tiwari; Ronit 
Kanojiya Class of 2024 along with students of 
CSE, AI)
12. 
Digital food experience using AR/VR and Aroma 
simulations (Vishnu Kumar Class of 2023; Tejas 
Parmar Haifa Desai, Class of 2024, DP)
13. 
Quantum machine learning (Bommi Sarath Kumar, 
Class of 2024, DP)
14. 
Drug Delivery Through Shock-Wave Apparatus 
(Kshitij Singh, Class of 2024, DP)
15. 
Designing a brain-computer interface for a sixth 
sense (Dheemant Jallepalli and Sharmila Noudu, 
Class of 2024, DP)
16. 
Genotype Phenotype association using NLP (Saahil 
Bhavsar, Ritam sharma, Deepak Majhi, Bhavsar 
Saahil Pritam, Bodasingi Yaswanth Naidu, Princy 
Gautam Class of 2024; Nadendla ahammad 
Hussain Class of 2023)
DP - Design project, BTP - B.Tech. project
Two students in the Class of 2022, for whom the option 
to pursue minors were made available had opted and 
completed minors in entrepreneurship. One student 
in the Class of 2022 had completed a specialization 
in Engineering Innovation, where he worked with a 
start-up (Test at home) conducting research towards 
development of a safe device for saliva sample 
collection for diagnostic testing.
In summary, the department has been able to attain 
most of the graduate attributes as proposed in the 
curriculum. The department will continue to strive to 
more effectively implement the curriculum so that a 
workforce with core-competencies, interdisciplinary 
training, social awareness, innovation mindset and a 
strong work ethic continues to be generated.
Student Graduate Outcomes
1.	

Ishan Agarwal (2015-2021), student of Sushmita Jha 
got Post-Doc. offer at Oxford University, UK
2. 
Madhumita (2017-2022), student of Sushmita Paul 
got Post-Doc. offer at University of Birmingham, UK
Notable Achievements of Alumni 
Most of our Ph.D. (Bioscience & Bioengineering) Alumni 
are currently pursuing postdoctoral training in reputed 
international research institutions (University of Oxford, 
Karolinska Institute, University of Florida, Northwestern 
University, University of Twente, University of Alberta 
etc.), where they are advancing research in their 
domains and making key contributions to their fields. 
Some of our Ph.D. Alumni have secured scientist (IIT 
Bombay, Enveda Biosciences) and faculty positions 
(Bennett University) as well. Our M.Tech. (Bioscience & 
Bioengineering) Alumni have predominantly enrolled in 
prestigious, funded, national (IIT Kharagpur, IIT Jodhpur) 
and international (Monash University, University of 
Warwick, National University of Singapore, University 
of Missouri, University of Lille, University of St. Andrews 
etc.) Ph.D. programs by securing fellowships. These 
programs are in core biological research as well 
as interdisciplinary areas such as biophotonics, 
nanotechnology, computational biology etc. Our 
M.Tech. program has also generated a competent and 
uniquely skilled workforce for industry and government-
funded institutes (Center for Development of Advanced
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Computing, Premas life sciences, TCS research, NIBMG, 
Regrow biosciences). The first batch of our flagship 
B.Tech. in Bioengineering program is set to graduate 
in 2023. The graduates of our B.Tech. program in 
Biotechnology, who were transitioned into the new 
curriculum have all been placed on campus. While a 
few B.Tech. graduates have opted for Masters / Ph.D. 
programs in the core domain (The Hebrew University 
of Jerusalem, Israel; Institutes of National importance in 
India), others have preferred to opt for jobs in reputed 
companies (Microsoft, Accenture, UnDosTres, Housing.
com, Reliance Jio, Larsen and Toubro Infotech, ICICI, ZS 
associates, Pickrr, Cubastion consulting, Neenopal etc.).
Laboratories & Equipments
All the laboratories/research groups under each 
thematic area are discussed at the “Description of 
Research Groups” section
1. Cell and Molecular Physiology laboratories
•
Cell culture facility
•
Fluorescence microscope
•
Liquid nitrogen storage system
•
-20 °C freezer
•
Gel documentation system
•
-80°C freezer
•
Microplate reader
•
Nanodrop spectrophotometer
•
Realtime PCR
•
Thermal cycler
•
Portable hypoxia chamber
2. Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory
•
Multi-vessel fermenter
•
Photobioreactor
•
Algal growth chamber
•
Electrochemical workstation
•
Two-dimensional gel elecrophoresis system
•
Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis
3. Biomaterials and Tissue Engineering
•
Nanomedicine and Biomaterials Group
•
Biosafety cabinet (Class II A2)
•

BR Biochem Plastic Microprocessor controlled 
Magnetic Stirrers
•
Domestic Microwave oven
•
Heating Mantle
•
Hydrothermal Autoclave
•
Labman pH meter
•
LG True Domestic Microwave oven
•
Non-refrigerated centrifuge
•
Probe sonicator, 650 Watt
•
REMI brushless DC meter vortex mixer
•
Sonicator System (LMUC-3)
•
Tempstar Hot Air Oven 1500W (101-150L)
•

Unbranded Frost free double door Refrigerator 
300L 3Star
•
Unbranded Steel Almirah
•
Vertical Laboratory Deep Freezer (Elanpro)
•
Weighing scale
•
Whirlpool Refrigerator 190L
•
Magnetic strirrers with temperature probe
•
Microtek 3 kVA UPS
•
Neuation Incubator (itherm CH25)
•
Neuation Centrifuge (iFuge M15K)
Integrative Tissue engineering
•
Samsung Convertible Fridge-394L
•
LG True Domestic Microwave oven
•
Neuation Hot plate Magnetic Strirrer( iStir HP320a)
•
Neuation Vortexer(iSWIX)
•
Labman pH meter(LMPH-10)
•
REMI Non-refrigerated Benchtop Centrifuge
4. Molecular Microbiology
•
AKTA protein purification system
•
Probe sonicator
•
Multi-mode plate reader
•
Microvolume fluorometer
•
Electrophoresis systems with blotting apparatus
•
Hybridization oven
•
Microplate reader
•
Laboratory workstation
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

•
Bacteriological incubators
•
Incubator shakers
•
Refrigerated centrifuge
•
Test tube rotator
•
Plate reader with a desktop and 1 KVA UPS
•
Refrigerated Shaker Incubator with Flask Holder
•
pH meter
5. Biophysics
Functional Amyloid biology
•
FPLC (Protein purification system)
•
Gel apparatus (horizontal and vertical)
•
Ika magnetic stirrer
•
Magnetic stirrer Hot Plate
•
pH meter
•
Plate reader, Desktop, 1 KVA UPS
•
Refrigerated Shaker Incubator
•
Probe Sonicator
•
Test-tube Rotator
•
Vortex Shaker
•
Microcentrifuge
Structural Biology & Protein Engineering
•
Dell Intel core Desktop Computer
•
Refrigerator with Bench top Cooler
•
Microwave oven cap. 28 Lit
•
Refrigerated Centrifuge
•
RH-S7-11A, Vertical Laminar Air Flow
•
Digital Weighing Balance
•
Vertical Electrophoresis System
•

Horizontal Electrophoresis System with power pack
•
Hot Air Oven
•
Analytical weighing Balance
•
4080 Rockymax gel Rocker Tarson
•
Refrigerator BOD Incubator
•
AKTA start main instruments with accessories
•
Vortex shaker
•
T 100 Thermal Cycler
•
1 KVA Online UPS, Microtek 30 mins backup
•
UV vis spectrophotometer
•

Tabletop large Vol. refrigerated centrifuge with 
accessories
•
UV Transilluminator
•
Dry Heat Bath
•
Magnetic Stirrer with Hot Plate
•
Magnetic Stirrer (Small volume)
•
pH Meter
6. 
Computational Biology and 
Bioinformatics
•
Servers
•
Workstations
•
Desktops
•
Software Developed
•

ProDFace (http://structbioinfo.iitj.ac.in/resources/
bioinfo/pd_interface)
7. Molecular Motors and Cell Motility
•
Cell culture facility
•
Biosafety cabinet
•
Inverted light microscope
•
-20 °C freezer
•
Nanodrop spectrophotometer
•
-80 °C freezer
•
Gradient thermal cycler
•
Bacteriological incubator
•
Electrophoresis systems
•
Refrigerated centrifuge
8. Neuroscience and Neuroengineering
•
Cell culture facility
•
Floid cell imaging station
•
Inverted microscope
•
Gel dryer
•
Gel documentation system
•
-80 °C freezer
•
Single tube multi-mode reader
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Name of the
faculty Year Outreach
Neha Jain 2021 Science awareness workshop in Misrilal College, Jaisalmer under SSR
2022 Conducted five workshops entitled "Seeing the Unseen: The Microbial Community"
in rural areas of Jaisalemer, Phagi, Kuchaman city
Sucharita Dey 2021 Invited short talk at the EMBL Conference "Bringing Molecular Structure to Life: 50
Years of the PDB"
Ayan Sadhukhan 2022 Co-organized an online “Workshop on Sustainable Agriculture Using Bharat Agri-
Grid Ecosystem” by IIT Jodhpur, IIT Indore, IISR Indore, C-DAC Pune, IISC Bangalore,
CEERI-Pilani, NCL Pune 28-29 June 2022 Session coordinator for the keynote talk
of Prof Hiroyuki Koyama, Gifu University Japan, on 28 June 2022
2022 Participated in IITJ-BioBlitz Green Walk program on 06 - 07 Aug 2022 for
spreading awareness of IIT Jodhpur campus flora, their ethnomedical uses, and the
importance of their conservation
•
Nanodrop spectrophotometer
•
Realtime PCR
•
Thermal cycler
•
Electrophoresis systems
•
Automated cell counter
•
Sonicator
•
Gene pulser system
9. Genomics and systems biology
Plant functional genomics group
•

Plant tissue culture rack with photoperiodic 
timer
•
Ultrasonic vapor humidifier
•
Desiccator + vacuum pump
•
Micropipettes set
•
Laminar air-flow cabinet
•
Incubator for bacteria
•
Refrigerator
•
Weighing balance
•
pH meter
•
Stirrer and hot plate
•
Vortex for multiple tubes
•
Temperature bath
•
Portable autoclave
•
Microwave oven
•
Horizontal gel electrophoresis
•
power pack for electrophoresis
•
Hot air oven
•
(-)20 low-temperature storage
•
refrigerated centrifuge
Microbial genomics group
•
Hybridization Oven
•

Vertical electrophoresis System with Blotting 
module
•
Microvolume Fluorometer - QUBIT4
•
Refrigerated Centrifuge 5430 with 2 x Rotors
•
Refrigerated Lab Shaker
•
Biosafety Cabinet Class II A2
•
Oxford Nanopore sequencer MK1B
•
Horizontal electrophoresis system with powerpack
•
Laboratory workstation
•
Gradient Thermal Cycler
•
Automatic Autoclave
•
Oxford Nanopore sequencer MK1C
Outreach
The following Outreach activities have been undertaken by the Faculty Members at IIT Jodhpur During the FY 2021-22.
Outreach
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Name of the
faculty Year Outreach
Priyanka Singh 2022 Invited talk at the First Animal Cell Culture Workshop held at AIIMS Jodhpur
2021 Invited Speaker, 24th BSCB GenSoc UK Cilia Network e-symposium
2021 Resource person, Faculty Development Program, AICTE training & Learning
Academy, IIT Jodhpur, online
Raviraj Vankayala 2021 Coordinated FB live sessions for the departmental and IDRPSH PG programs
Dinesh K Ahirwar 2021 Served as a departmental representative to coordinate UG and PG orientation
session
Sushmita Jha 2021 XXXIX Annual Meeting of Indian Academy of Neurosciences (IAN) 16th to 19th
December 2021, Theme: "NeuroGlia in Health and Disease" organized by Indian
Institute of Science Education and Research Kolkata, Netaji Subhas Open University
& CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Biology.
Pankaj Yadav 2022 Invited talk at workshop on Basic Molecular Techniques held at Department of
Biochemistry, AIIMS Jodhpur
2021 Invited talk at workshop on Advances in Bioinformatics sponsored by Ministry of
Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), NIT, Warangal, India
2021 Invited talk at FDP on Computer Science and Biology sponsored by ATAL academy,
MNIT, Jaipur, India
2021 Invited talk at UGC sponsored two-week online interdisciplinary refresher course
on quantitative biology organised by Human Resource Development Centre, Guru
Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology, Hisar, India
2021 Organized ATAL sponsored 1 week workshop on Multi-omics Data Science
Mitali Mukerji 2021 Ayurgenomics: A Step towards Integrative Medicine at AIIMS Jodhpur on Ayurveda
day
2021 Ayurgenomics: Bringing age-old wisdom to healthcare of the future” as a part of
the “AzadiKaAmritMahotsav and CSIR in the 80 Years - 80 Success Stories series“
2021 Thar DESIGNS in the board meeting of the International Consortium on Human
Phenomics Nov
2021 Transdisciplinary initiatives for ecosystem phenomics and precision integrative
medicine with focus on THAR region in the Indo-French Knowledge Summit:
workshop on AI for Health Care
2021 Novel, natural and personalised path to health with Ayurgenomics in the seminar
series of Chai pe science @ SSIAR Dec
2022 AyurTech for Precision medicine: Introduction to the basic framework in the Lecture
series on Technology based Evidence for Ayurved solution in Precision health @ Dr
SR Rajasthan Ayurved University Jan
2022 Ayurgenomics Framework for Integrative and Precision Medicine: Insights and
Application in Covid Times during the occasion of Amrit Mahotsav Science
Showcase: Roadmap to 2047 Organized Jointly by NIIRNCD, Jodhpur & Mohanlal
Sukhadia University, Udaipur
2022 Presentation on opportunities in BSBE, IITJ at the annual 14th Young investigator
meeting : toward’s a new horizon on 12th May 2022
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Department of Chemical 
Engineering
Introduction
The inception of the Department of Chemical 
Engineering at IIT Jodhpur took place in the year 2020 
with the admission of the first batch of undergraduate 
students and postgraduate students in four different 
academic programs (B.Tech, M.Tech., Ph.D., and M.Tech.-
Ph.D. Dual degree). Through the academic programs, 
the department is making a conscious effort to establish 
itself as a leading institute in a new genre of chemical 
engineering education, in line with national education
policy. The program involves traditional courses, 
emerging areas and specializations such as process 
engineering intelligence, molecular engineering and 
sustainability. With Industry 4.0 transforming the chemical 
industry, AI and IOT for chemical engineering forms an 
integral part of the curriculum. Chemical Engineering 
program at IIT Jodhpur has been formulated to produce 
future ready chemical engineers capable of meeting 
new industrial challenges. It is full of opportunities and 
flexibility for the students. Department is also keen on 
collaboration with industry and academia world-wide.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

“To become a globally recognized department 
of chemical engineering through its contribution 
in emerging and demand-driven areas with 
multidisciplinary approach.”
•

To empower students with fundamentals of 
chemical engineering and emerging concepts.
•

To become a center of excellence in process 
engineering intelligence, molecular engineering 
and sustainability
•

To engage in research program for translation of 
molecular information into discovery of sustainable 
products and processes.
•

To create a research ecosystem which encourages 
students and research scholars to find solutions for 
diverse environmental and societal issues as a part 
of the social scientific responsibility.
•

To become a net positive department through 
start-up culture, consultancy, technology transfer, 
industry-academia interaction.
Faculty details
•
Total Number of Faculty in Department – 12

Research Profile of each Faculty Member is as following
Faculty Members
Prof. Pradip K Tewari
Jal Jeevan Mission Professor Chair 
and Head, Department of Chemical 
Engineering
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Water Technologies; Membrane 
Technology; Desalination; 
Nanocomposite Membrane 
Technology; Heat Transfer and Two 
Phase Flow
Dr. Angan Sengupta
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Molecular Modelling & Simulation; 
Theoretical Material Design; 
Carbon dioxide Capture; Hydrogen 
Storage; Water Treatment; Fuel Cell; 
Thermodynamic Studies; Continuum 
Modelling & Simulation; Fire and 
Explosion Modelling; Steady and 
Transient State Modelling; Safety 
Modelling; Process Modelling; 
Transport Processes
Dr. Abhilasha Maheshwari
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Process Systems Engineering; Water 
Distribution Networks; Modelling; 
Optimization; Sustainability; 
Environmental Chemistry; AI and 
ML in Chemical and Environmental 
Systems
Dr. Deepak Arora
Associate Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Adhesion in electronic packaging 
and manufacture of high density 
interconnects; Polymer rheology; 
Polymer crystallization; Dielectrics 
for electronic packaging; Structure-
process-property relationships for 
polymers and their composites
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Description of Research Areas and Groups
Dr. Prasenjit Sarkar
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Biomolecular Engineering; 
Biochemical Engineering
Dr. Praveen Kumar Sappidi
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Multiscale modeling, Molecular 
simulation, Free energy simulations, 
Contaminant separation materials, Ionic 
liquid based solvents, Polymeric materials
Dr. Sumit Kamal
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Fine Chemicals; Catalysis and 
Reaction Engineering, Process 
Development; Green Technology; 
Chemical Reaction Kinetics
Dr. Vikky Anand
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Electrohydrodynamics; Multiphase flow; Electro-desalting; Soft matter; Rheology
Dr. Prashant Kumar Gupta
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Electrochemical Energy Storage 
Devices (Lithium, Sodium and Zinc 
Ion Battery), Electrocatalysis (HER, 
OER, CER, and Electrochemical CO2 
Reduction), Electrochemical Biosensors
Dr. Ramesh Asapu
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Photocatalysis; Environmental 
remediation; Modeling & Simulation; 
Plasmonic nanomaterials; Perovskites
Dr. Tara Chand Kumawat
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Hydrodynamic stability; flow through 
porous media; Computational Fluid 
Dynamics; Antibubbles
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Department has research interest in both core chemical 
engineering and emerging areas. With the advent of 
Industry 4.0, artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning 
(ML), data analytics, internet of things (IoT), molecular 
engineering and nano-composites, the research 
efforts in the department are focused towards the 
incorporation of new emerging technologies and 
demand-driven areas. To this end, following research 
groups focus on several areas such as:
•

Advanced Water Treatment Technologies: 
new energy driven desalination, membrane 
technologies, nanocomposite membrane, heat 
transfer and two-phase flow. Future directions 
include lab to land demonstration of water 
technologies with particular focus in rural and 
remote areas.
•

Molecular Engineering: molecular material design 
for CO2 capture, water treatment, geomaterials, 
molecular designing of membranes for fuel cells, 
enhanced oil recovery, and molecular development 
of fabric-based sensors for space applications.
•

Polymers: for advanced and sustainable 
manufacturing with applications in Agritech and 
semiconductors.
•

Electrochemical Engineering: Energy conversion 
and storage devices, battery management systems, 
conversion of CO2 to fuels, biosensors, electro 
coalescence of emulsion, electro-desalting in 
refinery upstream process.
•

Heterogeneous Catalysis & Reaction Engineering: 
process development, process intensification, 
membrane-based separation to work in the domain 
of fine chemicals, hydrogen economy and biomass 
valorization.
•

Process Systems Engineering & Sustainability: 
Advanced control, AI and machine learning (ML) 
applications for process modelling and, Decision 
Support Systems for achieving Sustainable 
Development Goals, Smart water infrastructure, 
Water-Food-Energy Nexus, Process Optimization. 
Future focus of the group also includes setup of 
digital twin pilot plant for industrial applications and 
operational excellence studies to name in brief.
•

Fluid & Interfacial Engineering: Understanding 
stability of micro-scale free surface flows and
antibubble. use of stable anti-bubbles for various 
real-life applications such as encapsulation, material 
transport and delicate mixing
•

Biochemical Engineering & Biomolecular 
Engineering: development and large-scale 
production of new proteins, cells, and tissues of 
therapeutic and biotechnological value. Future 
research will also focus on scale-up for large scale 
production of such tissues in the lab.
Academic Programmes
Department has students enrolled in following four 
academic programmes:
•

B. Tech. in Chemical Engineering
•
M.Tech. in Chemical Engineering
•
M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree in Chemical Engineering
•
Ph.D. Chemical Engineering
Significant Research Achievements
•

Scientific Social Responsibility: Three water 
purification units based on membrane assisted 
sorption process have been designed and installed 
with local participation in the three rural schools 
of Sirohi and Jhunjhunu districts roviding clean 
drinking water as a part of technology transfer 
under Scientific Social responsibility.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

•

Deployment of First Machine Learning Software 
developed by researchers at Department of 
Chemical Engineering for predictive maintenance of 
Heat Exchangers at IOCL Mathura Refinery.
•

MOU for Polymer and composites in Agriculture: 
Signing of MOU between Eeki Automation Pvt. Ltd 
and Dr. Deepak Arora, Department of Chemical 
Engineering for developing the growing chamber 
based on polymer composites that helps in 
lowering the temperature near the root zone.
•

Indo-German Research Collaboration: Signing of 
the Joint Declaration of Intent between JCKIC, IIT 
Jodhpur & Fraunhofer IGB, during the Indo-German 
Summit in Berlin 2022, to initiate and promote 
a scientific collaboration for future research and 
development projects in the field of Advanced 
Wastewater Treatment at the local CETP (Sangaria, 
Jodhpur).
•

Research Grant funded by SERB(EEQ): Molecular 
Exploration of Designer Solvents for the Low 
Temperature Directional Solvent Extractive 
Desalination” in the Empowerment and Equity 
Opportunities for Excellence in Science scheme.
•

Received CSR Fund Sponsored by Canara 
Bank HEFA: For the project on Installation of 
UF -Membrane based Sorption Assisted Water 
Purification Units in 25 Rural Schools of Jodhpur 
and nearby villages.
•

Research project for Advanced Electronic 
Packaging: Dr. Deepak Arora is running a 
sponsored project funded by SERB-DST in the 
area of development of polymer composites for 
advanced electronic packaging.
•

Total number of Sponsored Research and 
Consultancy Projects ongoing in department in FY 
21-22: 12
Faculty/ Department Laurels
•

Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) Chair Professorship 
at IIT Jodhpur: Prof. Pradip K. Tewari has been 
appointed as JJM Chair professorship with focus on 
Sustainability of Water Sources.
•

Young Scientist Award to Dr. Angan Sengupta 
on International Scientist Awards on Engineering, 
Science, & Medicine, 2021
•

Research Work Presentation in IFAC International 
Conference: Dr. Abhilasha Maheshwari presented 
her work titled “Stochastic Optimization Model 
for Short-term Planning of Tanker Water Supply 
Systems in Urban Areas” at the prestigious 
International Federation of Automatic Control (IFAC) 
- DYCOPS 2022 Conference held at Busan, Korea 
on 17 June 2022.
•

Invited talk in ICTFAB 2021 International 
Conference for Semiconductor Fabrication and 
Packaging : Dr. Deepak Arora was invited for a talk 
in the area of Advanced Electronic Packaging.
Student Laurels
•

Best paper presentation Award, InDACon-2022 
- Mr. Yogendra Chauhan (guided by Prof. Pradip 
K Tewari) received the award in the Indian 
Desalination Association (InDA) Conference, 2022.
•

Participation in Hack of PI: PAN IIT Global 
Hackathon – Mr. Vikram Singh Jat, guided by Dr. 
Deepak Arora clinched their position in the top 
1% by registering themselves for the semi-finals in 
the summit as part of the research on the Growing 
Chambers for Smart Agriculture.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Lab Name Equipment name Location
Mass Transfer Lab Natural Draft Dryer
Adsorption in Packed Bed
Experimental Water Cooling Tower
Packed Bed Solid Liquid Extraction
Liquid-Liquid Extraction Apparatus
Sieve Plate Distillation Column
Simple Batch Distillation Column
Vapour Liquid Equilibrium Setup
Absorption in Sieve Plate Column
Absorption in Packed Bed
Liquid Diffusion Coefficient Apparatus
Solid in Air Diffusion Apparatus
Vapour in Air Diffusion Equipment Berm E-09
Chemical reaction
engineering lab Adiabatic Batch Reactor
Isothermal Batch Reactor
Isothermal CSTR
CSTR with RTD
CSTR in series
Isothermal PFR
PFR with RTD
Isothermal semi-batch reactor
Packed bed reactor Berm E-10
Process Control Lab Single tank system
Two tank non-interacting system
Two tank interacting system
Interacting & non-interacting system
Characteristics of PID controller
Flow control trainer
Level control trainer
Temperature control trainer
Time constant of thermocouple
Time constant of a manometer Berm E-11
Fluid Mechanics Lab Discharge Through Venturimeter, Orificemeter & Rotameter
Pitot Tube Setup
Reynold’s apparatus
Bernoulli’s Theorem Apparatus
Fluid friction measurement apparatus
Boundary layer apparatus
Drag coefficient apparatus
Hydrodynamics of packed bed
Flow through fluidized bed
Cavitation Apparatus Berm E-12
Laboratories and equipment
UG teaching laboratories
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Lab Name Equipment name Location
Heat Transfer lab Thermal conductivity of metal rod
Heat transfer through composite wall
Heat transfer in natural convection
Heat transfer in forced convection
Emissivity measurement apparatus
Stefan Boltzmann’s apparatus
Heat transfer in agitated vessel
Shell and tube heat exchanger
Parallel flow/counter flow heat exchanger
Dropwise/filmwise condensation apparatus
Pool boiling apparatus
Unsteady state heat transfer unit Berm E-13
Equipment name Lab Location
CO2 Incubator Lab 205
See-saw shaker Lab 205
Dry block heater Lab 205
Battery Testing Equipment 5V 10mA Berm E11
Battery Testing Equipment 5V 20A Berm E11
Electrochemical workstation with RRDE Lab 203
Horizontal arm microscope Lab 203
Programmable forced convection oven Lab 206
vacuum oven Lab 206
programmable spin coater Lab 206
tube roller Lab 206
Chemical baths Lab 206
Computational GPU System + 42 Rack Rack #18, New Data Center
Computation Work Stations E8
UV-vis spectrophotometer Lab 205
Hanna Multiparameter Water Analysis Field Kit Lab 203
Hermle Centrifuge Lab 205
Eppendorf Microcentrifuge Lab 205
Spin Coater (being sent to vendor for repair) Lab 205
Aspen Server CC (Rack 18)
Upright Microscope Lab 203
Research Laboratories Equipment:
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Equipment name Lab Location
Trinocular microscope Lab 203
Camera with cable Lab 203
High speed homogenizer Lab 206
Viscometer Lab 206
Electrochemical analyzer Lab 203
hydraulic crimping machine and split test cell Lab 203
electrode punching machine and manual rolling press machine Lab 203
Autoclave Reactor Lab 203
Quantum ATK Lab E8
Function generator Lab 203
Oscilloscope Lab 203
Multimeter Lab 203
•

Newsletter publications: Half yearly publication of newsletter volumes highlighting various department 
activities
•

Invited Talk: Prof. Pradip K Tewari gave an invited talk on wastewater management at the ‘Environmental 
Pollution & Wastewater Management of Jodhpur’ seminar, jointly organized by the Jodhpur Industries 
Association (JIA) and Jodhpur City Knowledge and Innovation Cluster (JCKIC) in collaboration with IIT 
Jodhpur. He briefed about conventional wastewater treatment and outlined innovative wastewater 
management aspects. He gave plenary lecture on Rural Water Technologies during International 
Workshop on Water Purification Technologies, Arsenic Removal from Groundwater and Integrated Water 
Management at CSMCRI and NAM S&T Centre. Keynote address on Water Purification in Rural Areas: IITJ 
Interventions was delivered by him in the Women Scientist Forum. He delivered Keynote lecture in InDA 
Conference on Desalination and Water Treatment: Recent Technological advancement, Challenges & 
Opportunities.
•

Invited Talk & Visit: Dr. Deepak Arora, and M.Tech (Chemical Engineering) students Yogendra Chouhan 
and Vikram Singh Jat visited the CIPET Jaipur campus on 8th December 2021.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

•

A talk was given by Dr. Deepak Arora, where he 
explained the fundamentals of polymers with the 
help of examples and introduced the Department of 
Chemical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur.
•

Invited Online Seminar Talk: Dr. Abhilasha 
Maheshwari gave an online seminar talk to 
the Process-Energy-Environmental Systems 
Engineering (PEESE) lab at Cornell University, New 
York, entitled "Systems Engineering Perspectives 
of Smart Water Infrastructure: Modelling and 
Optimization Approaches for Water Quality 
Management".
•

Opening of Student Chapter of Indian Institute 
of Chemical Engineers (IIChe) at Department of 
Chemical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur.
•

Dr. Deepak Arora was invited by C4DFED, IIT 
Mandi for a few lectures on Advanced Electronic 
Packaging.
•

Dr. Deepak Arora was invited to the Thermal 
Analysis Forum of Delaware Valley for a poster 
evaluation session.
•

Consultancy Projects: At present, the Chemical 
Engineering Department is sharing its expertise with 
the Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation 
(DDWS), Ministry of Jal Shakti; Defence Research 
and Development Organization (DRDO), Ministry 
of Defence; Public Health Engineering Department 
(PHED), Jodhpur Military Cantonment etc. The 
Department is providing consultancy services to 
industries and is actively involved in Scientific Social 
Responsibility (SSR) through Unnat Bharat Abhiyan 
(UBA) and other societal initiatives.
•

Invited Member & Reviewer: Dr. Abhilasha 
Maheshwari has been invited as a National 
Organizing Committee member for the 10th PSE 
Asia Conference, IIT Madras, India, 2022.
•

Invited talk: Dr. Angan Sengupta gave a talk in a 
Faculty Development Program at Gharda Institute of 
Technology which is sponsored by AICTE-ISTE.
•

Dr. Angan Sengupta is a review committee member 
for Kerala State Council for Science, Technology & 
Environment
Publications
1	

Sukumar, A., Bachhar, N., Chatterji, A., & 
Kumaraswamy, G. (2022). Elastic response 
of polymer-nanoparticle composite sponges: 
Microscopic model for large deformations. Physical 
Review Materials, 6(2). ISSN: 24759953. https://doi.
org/10.1103/PhysRevMaterials.6.025604
2	

Sappidi, P. (2021). Molecular simulation of separation 
of gadolinium ions from aqueous waste using 
directional solvent extraction. Journal of Molecular 
Liquids, 341. ISSN: 01677322. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
molliq.2021.117330
3	

Sharma, G. P., Gupta, P. K., Sharma, S. K., Pala, R. G. 
S., & Sivakumar, S. (2021). Chalcogenide Dopant-
Induced Lattice Expansion in Cobalt Vanadium 
Oxide Nanosheets for Enhanced Supercapacitor 
Performance. ACS Applied Energy Materials, 4(5), 
4758–4771. ISSN: 25740962. https://doi.org/10.1021/
acsaem.1c00357
4	

Bedar, A., Singh, B., Tewari, P., Bindal, R. & Kar, S. 
(2021). Kinetics studies on free radical scavenging 
property of ceria in polysulfone–ceria radiation 
resistant mixed-matrix membrane. International 
Journal of Chemical Reactor Engineering, 19(8), 779-
785. https://doi.org/10.1515/ijcre-2020-0123.
Outreach activities
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start
Date End Date
1 Controlled morphologies via phase-
separation in epoxy blends for
electronic sensor & device packaging SERB Deepak
Arora H31,39,400 03-Dec-
20 02-Dec-
22
2 Designing of Potential Adsorbents via
Molecular Modelling and Simulations
for the High Temperature Carbon
Dioxide Capture SERB Angansen
Gupta H21,95,220 04-Dec-
20 03-Dec-
21
3 Design of Zn Anode and Non-
native Structured MnO2 Cathode
for Stationary Grid Energy Storage
Devices DST-Inspire
Faculty Prashant
Kumnar
Gupta H35,00,000 17-Feb-21 16-Feb-
26
4 Electrodesalting of water-in-oil
emulsion: an experiment, design and
scale-up to smart electrocoalescer SERB-SRG Vikky
Anand H32,98,900 23-Dec-21 22-Dec-
23
5 Molecular Exploration of Designer
Solvents for the Low Temperature
Directional Solvent Extractive
Desalination DST-SERB-EMEQ Praveen
Kumar
Sappidi H36,55,344 05-Mar-
22 04-Mar-
25
6 Setting up of JJM-Professor Chair
on "Sustainability of drinking water
sources and releases of funds to IIT,
Jodhpur Ministry of Jal
Shakti-National
Jal Jeevan
Mission Prof. Pradip
Kumar
Tewari H6,02,37,076 28-Mar-
22 27-Mar-
27
S.
No Project Title Sponsoring Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start
Date End Date
1 Separation of fine iron partials
from organic powders to less than
10 ppm Uma Laxmi Organics
Pvt. Ltd. Pradip
Kumar
Tiwari H33,134 01-Feb-
20 31-Jan-21
2 Vetting of hydraulic designs
related to Rajeev Gandhi Lift Canal
(RGLC) System PHED-Rajasthan Pradip
Kumar
Tiwari H50,000 01-Jul-
20 31-Jul-20
3 Growing chambers used in
hydroponic farming EEKI Automation
Private Limited Deepak
Arora H1,20,000 31-May-
21 30-May-
22
4 Random verification of Annual
Inventory on Hazardous waste
management Central Pollution
control Board Pradip
Kumar
Tiwari H4,50,000 25-Nov-
21 15-Apr-22
5 Data pipeline build-up and ML
model deployment for Heat
Exchangers Indian Oil Corpn. Ltd.
(Refineries division
head quarters) Pradip
Kumar
Tiwari H1,04,65,000 08-Nov-
21 03-Mar-
22
Projects
Sponsored Research Projects
Consultancy Projects
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Department of 
Chemistry
Introduction
Chemical science meets Technology at the Department 
of Chemistry, IIT Jodhpur. The department was formally 
established in the year 2015 at IIT Jodhpur. The 
Department offers Masters and Doctoral programs in 
Chemistry. In addition, it offers core and elective courses 
in chemistry and allied areas for undergraduate B. Tech. 
Engineering Students of the Institute. The Department of 
Chemistry at IIT Jodhpur is striving to be acknowledged 
for excellence in teaching, research and outreach, at a 
distinctive locus of science and technology. Research is
carried out in all major areas of chemical sciences. It has 
started its journey of making technology contributions 
in new materials for energy solutions, environmental 
remediation, water and healthcare. Also, fundamental 
research in the areas of Chemical Reaction Dynamics, 
Computational Biophysics, Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
techniques, Organic Synthetic methods, organometallic 
chemistry, Main Group Chemistry, Nanomaterials, 
Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Information are being 
carried out in the department. This document describes 
the vision and mission of the department.
Faculty Members
Dr. Ananya Debnath
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Theoretical and Computational 
Chemistry
Rakesh Kumar Sharma
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Catalysis for Energy and 
Stereocontrol, Feedstock Chemistry, 
Fuel and Lubricants, Energy Storage 
and Water Treatment Technology
Ramesh K. Metre
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Main-group organometallic chemistry, 
Coordination polymers, Inorganic-
organic hybrid materials and Metal 
phosphonate and phosphate 
chemistry
Atul Kumar
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Quantum Information Processing
Samanwita Pal
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Solution and solid-state NMR and 
NQR spectroscopy
Manikandan Paranjothy
Head of Department
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Theoretical and Computational 
Chemistry, Chemical Reaction 
Dynamics
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Description of Research Groups
The Department of Chemistry has set up 6 thematic 
research laboratories for advanced experimental 
research activities for Ph.D. scholars, project staff and 
Post-Doctoral Researchers. The details of the research, 
experimental facilities etc. can be found under the 
webpages of individual faculty users of the laboratory. 
Following are the thrust areas in which research 
activities are going on in the department.
1.	
Organic Synthesis and Catalysis
2. Natural Products and Drugs
3. Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy
4. Fluorescence Correlation Spectroscopy
5. Quantum Computing and Information
6. Materials for Energy Harvesting and Storage
7.	
Computational Physical Chemistry
8. Sensors for Environment and Healthcare
9. 
Energy Production, Conversion and Storage 
Devices
10. Bio Fuels and Catalysis
11. Asymmetric Synthesis and Flow Chemistry
12. Main Group Chemistry and Organometallic Catalysis
13. Water Treatment and Environmental Remediation
The department has been actively involved in setting 
up an advanced research facility that house various 
sophisticated equipment and characterization tools 
for carrying out cutting-edge research. Department 
has access to various spectrometers for molecular 
characterization (NMR 500 MHz, temperature-
dependent fluorescence and PL measurements,
Nirmal Kumar Rana
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Asymmetric Catalysis and Continuous 
Flow Chemistry
Dibyendu Kumar Sasmal
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Biophysical chemistry; Single 
molecule fluorescence imaging; T 
cell immunology; Ion channel and 
neurotransmitter; Femtosecond 
ultrafast fluorescence spectroscopy; 
Fluorescence correlation 
spectroscopy; Electrophysiology: 
Single channel patch-clamp
Sandip Murarka
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Organic Synthesis, Development 
of Novel Synthetic Methods, 
Transition Metal Catalyzed Synthetic 
Transformations, C-H Functionalization 
Reactions, Asymmetric Catalysis
Subrata Chakraborty
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Organometallics, Homogeneous 
Catalysis
Rohan D. Erande
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Synthesis of Natural Products & 
Medicinally Active Compounds, 
Method development Lewis Acid 
Catalysis
Ritu Gupta
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Nanomaterials & Nanodevices for 
Water, Energy and Healthcare
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

UV-Visible, FT-IR), Microscopy techniques (SEM, AFM, 
optical microscope) and structural characterization 
(P-XRD and Single-crystal XRD) and thermal 
characterization tools (TGA, DTA), Surface techniques 
(BET, Chemisorption, Contact Angle) and Magnetic 
Measurements (SQUID and PPMS).
Academic Programmes
M.Sc. Chemistry (2 year)
Ph. D. in Chemistry
BS in Chemistry with Specialization (4 years)
Significant Research Achievements
1.	

Dr. Sandip Murarka has been chosen by the 
editorial boards of the journals Synthesis, Synlett, 
and Synfact as one of the “Thieme Chemistry 
Journal Awardees” for 2022
2. 
Dr. Sandip Murarka has been invited to join the 
Early Career Advisory Board of ‘Chemistry Select’ 
journal
3. 
Prof. Rakesh K Sharma elected the Fellow of the 
Royal Society of Chemistry, London.
4. 
Sushanta Kumar Parida and Sandip Murarka’s latest 
research article is published in the journal ‘Organic 
Letters’ (Impact Factor: 6.005).
5. 
Research Paper of Abhishek Mishra, Ravi Kumar, 
Prem Lama and Ramesh K Metre published in 
Journal of Molecular Structure
6. 
SERB Women Excellence Award for Young Women 
Scientists for Outstanding Research for the year 
2021 to Dr. Ritu Gupta
Faculty/ Department Laurels
•

Dr. Manikandan Paranjothy, Member of few national 
level committees; Invited journal publications; 
Reviewer for journals and SERB; Pooja Sharma 
(M17CY013) M.Sc student has got PMRF Fellowship.
AkashGutal (P20CY201), Ph.D student has got PMRF 
Fellowship; AnchalGahlaut, PhD student, received a 
highly prestigious Carl Storm International Diversity 
(CSID) Award, CSIR Foreign Travel Grant and 
CCSTDS Travel Fellowship Award
•

Dr. Ananya Debnath, Invited journal publications, 
Review Editor for Frontiers with Biophysics as 
specialty section, Active referee for journals and 
Arpita Srivastava &Abhinav Srivastava, Two PhD 
students doing post doc in reputed Institutes 
abroad, One PhD student received the best poster 
award from RSC, One PhD student won travel grant 
to attend workshop abroad; MSc students doing 
PhD in reputed Institutes in India and abroad, Purva 
(M17CY015) received PMRF fellowship and won 
travel grant to attend workshop abroad,
•

Dr. Nirmal Kumar Rana, Received four sponsored 
research grants including INSPIRE Faculty Award 
from DST, Core-Research Grant (PI) and IRHPA (Co-
PI) from SERB. Mentoring one project under Women 
Scientist Scheme-A. Serving as Review Editorof the 
Editorial Board of Catalytic Reactions and Chemistry 
(specialty section of Frontiers in Chemistry). 
Life time member of CRSI. Actively working on 
collaborative research with other research groups 
within the Institute and outside Institute. Published 
many original research articles in international 
journals. and Master students who worked with me 
during their projects/thesis have been pursuing PhD 
programs in reputed institutes.
•

Dr. Rakesh Kumar Sharma, Three Technology 
developed in the area of Bio-fuel, Environmental 
Remediation (water, soil and air) and Catalysis, 
Editor of Frontiers of Materials. Received 15 
research grants including 4 constancy projects, 
Member of FICCI for roadmap of Bio-Fuel policies, 
Member of NGT for Environmental monitoring 
committee, Fellow of Royal Society of Chemistry 
(FRSC), Member of IUPAC, Executive Member of 
Royal Australian Chemical Institute, Best Faculty 
Award for teaching and Research and Outstanding 
Research Award-2018 and Six Masters students 
selected for Phd in top universities in USA, One 
PhD student got SERB-OVDF at University of 
Alberta, Canada.
•

Dr. Ramesh K. Metre, Early Career Research Award 
from SERB, 2017 and Masters Student selected for 
Phd in university abroad, Abhishek Mishra received 
“Best Research Award” for his oral presentation 
in Students’ Research Convention’ 21, organized
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S. No Major Achievements of the students
1. Samapika Sahu (P20CY011), PhD student has won travel grant for workshop by
Cluster of Excellence RESOLV at university of Bochum 7-10 June 2022
2. Kriti Alam (M21CY011), MSc student has won travel grant for workshop by Cluster of
Excellence RESOLV at university of Bochum 7-10 June 2022
3. Ghanshyam Mali, Ph.D. student, received Best Poster Award in the WOST
Conference held at IIT Jodhpur. 19-20 April 2022
4. Ajay Urgunde (P16CY002) got selected for NSF funded Postdoctoral Position at
Auburn University, USA 2 Jan 2022
by the IIT Kanpur; Abhishek Mishra, Ph.D. Student, 
working under the supervision of Dr. Ramesh K. 
Metre received “Professor B. C. Halder Memorial 
Award” for the oral presentation in the 57th Annual 
Convention of Chemists, 2020 & International 
Conference on “Recent Trends in Chemical 
Sciences (RTCS-2020)” organized by the Indian 
Chemical Society
•

Dr. Ritu Gupta, SERB SIRE Fellowship (2022); 
DST Projects Review Committee Member 2022; 
Member of Materials Chemistry Team in SERB-
VORTEX Conclave 2021; Associate Editor for 
Frontier in Sensors (2021 onwards); Selected for 
Indo-German Week of the Young Researcher-2021, 
NASI Young Scientist Platinum-Jubilee Award 
(2021); Emerging Young Investigator Recognition 
by RSC -Journal of Materials Chemistry-A (2021); 
IIT Jodhpur Young Researcher Award (2021); 
Associate, Indian Academy of Sciences (2021); 
SERB Women Scientist Award (2021); Member 
of Indian National Young Academy of Sciences 
(2021-25); INSA Young Scientist Medal (2020); RSC 
Materials Horizon Community Board Member (2020 
onwards); SERB ITS Fellowship Travel Grant (2018) , 
Materials Research Society of India, Member (2018 
onwards), Best Reviewer Recognition from Bulletin 
of Materials Science, India (2018).
•

Dr. Rohan D. Erande, developingmethodologiesin 
the area of green chemistry to access natural 
products and drug molecules concisely.
•

Dr.Samanwita Pal, Elected as an executive 
committee member of NMR Society of India in 2021 
for two years; active referee for renowned Physical
Chemistry Journals; Invited article published in 
special issue of JMR Open and PhD students are all 
placed; MSc. students are doing PhDs in reputed 
national and international institutes; presented 
papers in NMR conferences; won DST travel grants
•

Dr. SandipMurarka, Thieme Chemistry Journal 
Award” by the editorial boards of the journals 
Synthesis, Synlett, and Synfact, 2022.
•

Dr. SandipMurarka, Early Career Advisory Board 
(ECAB) Member of Wiley-VCH “ChemistrySelect” 
Journal, 2022.
•

Dr. SandipMurarka, Lifetime Fellow, Indian Chemical 
Society (ICS), 2020.
•

Dr. SandipMurarka, Lifetime Membership, Indian 
Chemical Society (ICS), 2020.
•

Dr. SandipMurarka, Lifetime Membership, Chemical 
Research Society of India (CRSI), 2020.
•

Dr. SandipMurarka, Early Career Research Award 
(ECRA) from the Science and Engineering Research 
Board (SERB), 2018.
•

Dr. SandipMurarka, INSPIRE Faculty Award from the 
Department of Science & Technology (DST), India 
(2016).
•

Dr. SandipMurarka, Max-Planck fellowship from MPI 
Dortmund (06/2013-04/2016). and M.Sc. students 
doing PhD in reputed institutes in India and abroad. 
Received PMRF fellowship. Published research 
work in highly reputed international journals of high 
impact factor.
•

Received FIST Project Grant (DST-FIST 
Program-2019)
Student Laurels
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S. No Major Achievements of the students
5. Snehraj Gaur (P20CY013), PhD student received PMRF fellowship through Lateral
Entry to work with Dr.Ritu Gupta on VOC sensors for healthcare applications.. 22 Oct 2021
6. Akash Gutal (P20CY201), Ph.D student has got PMRF Fellowship. 31 May 2021
7. Abhishek Mishra received "Best Research Award" for his oral presentation in
Students' Research Convention' 21, organized by the IIT Kanpur 27 March 2021
8. Gaurav Bahuguna (P16CY001), PhD Student got a fully funded postdoctoral
position with Prof.Patolsky at Tel-Aviv University, Israel . 3 March 2021
9. Abhishek Mishra, Ph.D. Student, working under the supervision of Dr. Ramesh K.
Metre received "Professor B. C. Halder Memorial Award" for the oral presentation
in the 57th Annual Convention of Chemists, 2020 & International Conference
on "Recent Trends in Chemical Sciences (RTCS-2020)" organized by the Indian
Chemical Society 06 January 2021
List for Equipment at Basic & Thematic Research laboratories
Chemistry
Chemistry Inorganic & Organic Laboratory -105
1. 
Shaker (R. T) (Thermo Scientific/MaxQ 3000)-01 
No.
2. Revco Refrigerators (Thermo Scientific)-02 Nos.
3. 
Centrifuge (Thermo Scientific/Sorval ST40R, 
Legend Micro STR21 and LegenMicro 21)-02 Nos
4. Hot Shaker (Julabo/SW23)-01 No.
5. Water purification machine (R O) - 01 No.
7. Sonicitors (Elm/Elmasonic P)-01 No.
8. 
Soxhlet apparatus (complete Set) Ambassador 
-01 No.
9. Rotary evaporator (IKA/RV10 Basic)-03 Nos.
10. Vacuum pumps (I Lmvac GmbH)-o3 No.
11. Vacuum Pumps (Oil) (I Lmvac GmbH)-01 Nos.
12. 
Ultra Violet fluorescent analytical cabinet UV-03 
Nos.
13. Mettler Toledo = 3 Nos.
14. 
Furnace Box (Nabertherm 30-3000˚C/LHT 207 
GN)-01 No.
15. 

Furnace Tubular (Nabertherm / RT 
30/200/15/230 v1/N/PE)-01 No.
16. OvenUni Tech Sales/ Mod. No. UTS 1.01 F-1 No.
17. Magnetic Hot Plate Stirrers- 18 Nos.
19. 
Digital Multimeter (Model :Metravi 451)
20.	Refrigerator (Elan Pro)-01 No.
21. Vacuum pump (Rocker)-01 No.
22.	Digital Oven (UTS-1.01E)-01 No.
23.	Vacuum Oven (MAC, MSW-218)
Laboratories and equipment
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Chemistry Analytical & Physical 
laboratory-106
1.	

Electrochemical work station (CH Instruments, 
CHI66E)-01 No.
2. 
UV Visible Spectrometer (LABINDIA, 2000 U)-02 
Nos.
3. FTIR Spectrometer (Bruker, Apex-II)-01 No.
4. 
Fluorescence Spectrometer (JASCO, FP-8300)-
01 No.
5. 
Contac Angle Meter (Kyowa Interference, DMe-
211 plus)- 01 No.
6. 
Optical Polarimeter (Rudolph Autopol-II, 
Automatic Polarimeter) )- 01 No.
7.	

Electronic weighing balance (Shimadzu, BL-
220H) 02 No.
8. 
Ultrasonic cleaner (Cole parmer08895-19) - 01 
No.
9. Water purification system (Milipore) )- 01 No.
10. Refrigerator (Elanpro) )- 02 No
11. Centrifuge (Thermo Scientific)
Laboratory-201 (Asymmetric Catalysis & 
Continuous Flow Chemistry Laboratory)
1.	
Rotary Evaporator
2. 
(Complete set = rotavap + vaccum pump + 
chilller) (2 Nos.)
3. Chilller (2 Nos.)
4. Oil Free Vacuum Pump (3 Nos.)
5. Magnetic Stirrers Hot Plate (10 Nos.)
6. Weighing Machines (accuracy 0.001g) (2 Nos.)
7.	
High Vacuum Pump (with oil) (2 Nos.)
8. Vestfrost Fridge (1 Nos.)
9. Oven (1 Nos.)
10. Ultraviolet Inspection Cabinet (2 Nos.)
11. Chemical Storage (02 Nos.)
12. Ultrasonicator (1 Nos.)
13. Heating Mantle (4 Nos.)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Laboratory-207 (Transition Metal & 
Organometallic Chemistry Laboratory)
3. Weighing balance-1 No.
4. Vacuum pump-1 No.
6. Rotary evaporator -1 No.
8. Melting point apparatus-1 No
Laboratory-208 (C-H Functionalization 
&Photoredox Catalysis Laboratory)
1.	
Rotary evaporator -1 No.
2. Magnetic stirrer-4 Nos.
5. High vacuum pump-1 No.
6. Gas cylinder with regulator-4 Nos.
7.	
One complete set of Uv Vis kessel system
Laboratory-202 (Spectroscopy & Biophysical 
Chemistry Laboratory)
1.	

Benchtop Muffle Furnace (Model: MF-14P) 
Metrex scientific instruments (P) Ltd.- )- 01 No.
2. 
Laboratory electric oven universal type (upto 
250 °C) UNI-TECH Sales. )- 01 No.
3. 
pH Meter with micro electrode (3mm), 
ThermoFisher-)- 01 No.
4. 
Micro Centrifuge tube rotor, (14000 rpm) Green 
Genome-)- 01 No.
5. 
Semi Micro balance (0.01mg-80g) ACZET-)- 01 
No.
6. 
Vortex Shaker Green Genome-)- 01 No.- )- 01 No.
7.	

Digital Ultrasonic Cleaner (40kHz/2.5 Ltr) Green 
Genome-)- 01 No.
8. 
Vacuum Pump (17LPM/hg. 24”/12Psig) Green 
Genome-
9. 
Hot Plate with Magnetic Stirrer (Qty-2 Nos.)
10. 
Normal Refrigerator/ Fridge (Qty-1 No.)
11. 
Benchtop Muffle Furnace (Model: MF-14P) 
Metrex scientific instruments (P) Ltd.- )- 01 No.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Laboratory-215 (Advanced Functional Materials 
Laboratory)
1.	
Electro Chemical station (CHI601e)
2. Laminar Hood
4. Atmospheric Glove Box with Thermal Evaporator
5. Nabertherm TGA furnace (B400/410)
6. Digital Oven
7.	
Custom Designed Gas/VOC Sensing Set up
8. IVIUM Stat Electro Chemical Station
9. Multi-channel Palm Sens Electrochemical Station
10. Probe Sonicator
11. Bath Sonicator
Laboratory-216 (Energy and Environmental 
Catalysis Research Laboratory)
1.	
Rotary Evaporator (IKA/RV10 Basic)
2. Vacuum pumps (ILmvac GmbH)
3. 
High preactor (Elfab / Model No. 
#63393/1/045/2010)
4. Ultra Violet fluorescent analytical cabinet UV
5. Readly Reactor (Complete Set) Radleys
6. 
Chiller Julabo / Mod. No. FL 1201= 2, FT 902=1, 
FP 89= 1
7.	
Colorimeter Fisher Scientific / Mod. 45
8. 
Titrator Terminator with compact stirrer Mettler 
Toledo / Mod. T 50
9. 
Solar simulator (PET photo emission TECH INC& 
Modal SS50AAA
10. 
Glass oven with vacuum pump (Buchi&Buchi 
glass oven B-585)
11. Melting Point (Buchi& melting point M-565)
12. 
Autopol II Automatic polarimeter with mini 
cooling system
13. Rudolph Research Analytical &AP II /2W
14. MCS-R 500 & spectra lab Instruments Pvt. Ltd
15. 
Electrochemical Workstation (CH instruments & 
model 680)
16. 
8 Channels Battery Analyzer (MTI & BST8-MA 
(10mA)
17. Toga Clean System (GT Scien)
18. Centrifuge (Thermo Scientific)
19. Julabo Refrigerators (Julabo/KRC 180)
20.	
Overhead Mechanical Stirrers (Heidolph RZR-
2102)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Centre for Advanced Scientific Equipment-111 and Furnace Lab
1.	

High Resolution Mass Spectrometer System 
(HR-MS)
2. Nitrogen Generator
3. Tube Furnace
4. Muffle Furnace
1.	

Dr. Ananya Debnath, organized several visits 
of school children under the scheme of 
RashtriyaAbhishkarAbhiyaan and Unnat Bharat 
Abhiyaan, Visited schools in neighboring villages 
under the scheme of Unnat Bharat Abhiyan, 
Delivered lectures for the school children under 
VigyanJyoti program
2. 
Dr. Nirmal Kumar Rana, guided three students from 
outside institute under Joint Science Academies 
Summer Research Fellowship Program
3. 
Ritu Gupta organized a conference on 
“Empowering Science and Technology with Women 
- WOST 2022” during 19-20th April 2022 at IIT 
Jodhpur. The event was organized for fostering the 
involvement of the female fraternity in Science and 
Technology (S&T). The conference included 184 
attendees (young scientists and students) and 23 
invited talks on frontier areas of S&T. The program 
was mandated to construct a roadmap for young 
women for their involvement in S&T and create an 
inspirational environment for those interested in 
pursuing their careers in STEM. This program was 
laid by the thoughtful initiative of the SERB, RSC 
and IIT Jodhpur.
4. 
Ritu Gupta delivered a lecture to more than 300 
students from local government schools of XI and 
XII at Indian Air Force Camp on “Nanotechnology: 
Examples in Everyday Life” at Air Force Auditorium, 
Air Force Station Jodhpur on 06 May 2022.
5. 
Ritu Gupta delivered an Invited National Webinar on 
“NanoTechnology : From Lab to Fab” organized for 
BSc/MSc students and faculty as a part of "Recent 
Advances in Chemistry" at the IUPAC Global 
Breakfast Event at Miranda House College, Delhi 
University on 16 Feb 2022.
6. 
Ritu Gupta, coordinated IIT Jodhpur visit of 80 
VigyanJyoti Scholars of Classes 10 & 12 from 
Navodhya School, Barmer under DST Project 
VigyanJyoti program on 23 Dec 2021;
7.	

Ritu Gupta, organized Science Exhibition and 
Lectures on National Science day (28 Feb 2022) at 
BharatpurPahari district for all govt schools students 
of Class X and XII.
8. 
Ritu Gupta conducted an online Internship for 4 
weeks for research training on “Materials for Energy 
and Environment” for 1 month (June-July 2021) for 
selected meritorious MSc/BSc students as INYAS 
member.
9. 
Ritu Gupta delivered outreach lectures in online 
mode at VIT Vellore Chennai and Bikaner 
Engineering College, Rajasthan on 5 and 6 July 
2021 as ATAL FDP programme for 200 registered 
participants.
10. 
Ritu Gupta delivered an invited RSC Desktop 
Seminar on Smart Sensors organized by Materials 
Horizon on 3 Dec 2020. Event was attended by 
more than 100 participants.
11. 
Ritu Gupta delivered a tutorial on X-Ray Diffraction 
Technique for Materials Analysis at University of 
Kota, Rajasthan (March 2020).
12. 
Ritu Gupta organized several outreach programs on 
Nanotechnology that included exhibition, lectures, 
video shows, quizzes for more than 500 school and 
college students in 2018, 2019 and 2020 at various 
locations in Rajasthan (Jaipur Science Centre, 
Barmer, JNVU and govt schools of Jodhpur). This 
was supported by NanoMission and DST Rajasthan.
Outreach activities
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

13. 
Ritu Gupta delivered a lecture and presented a 
video show on "Discoveries in Chemistry" on 7 July 
2016 to students and teachers from Eastern India 
under Ishan Vikas Program (MHRD).
14. 
Ritu Gupta delivered a seminar on the topic "Nano: 
In my Everyday life?" to young students from 
schools of Jodhpur under RashtriyaAvishkarAbhiyan 
on 21 November 2015.
15. 
Dr. SandipMurarka, contributed to the outreach 
program of DST, KIRAN division, “VigyanJyoti-Pilot”, 
by delivering a lecture on “Organic Chemistry in 
Today’s World”. The program was organized at IIT 
Jodhpur by our Nodal officer of the program, 2018.
16. 
Dr. SandipMurarka, conducted a session at K.V no.1 
Air force Jodhpur as part of an In-Service Training 
Program for PGT Chemistry (40 in number) for
their professional development. The session was 
conducted by opting a topic “Aromatic Substitution 
Reactions” to demonstrate innovations in teaching 
methods, 2018.
17. 
Dr. SandipMurarka, Served as Jury member for 
National Children Science Congress (NCSC)-2021 at 
K.V no.1 Air force Jodhpur, 2021
18. 
Dr.Dibyendu K sasmal and Dr. SandipMurarka, 
Served as a department coordinator to conduct 
institute wide open house-”IIT Jodhpur Padharo”, 
2022.
19. 
Dr. Rohan D. Erande, Served as Jury member for 
National Children Science Congress (NCSC)-2021 at 
K.V no.1 Air force Jodhpur, 2021
20.	
Dr. Rohan D. Erande, Served as a Institute 
Representative (IR) for JEE (Advanced) 2021
1	

Jain, A., Maji, S., Shukla, K., Kumari, A., Garg, 
S., Metre, R. K., Bhattacharyya, S., Rana, N. K. 
(2022). Stereoselective synthesis of tri-substituted 
tetrahydrothiophenes and their in silico binding 
against mycobacterial protein tyrosine phosphatase 
B. Organic and Biomolecular Chemistry, 20(15), 
3124–3135. ISSN: 14770520. https://doi.org/10.1039/
d2ob00052k
2	

Kamboj, N., Mali, G., Lama, P., Erande, R. D., & Metre, 
R. K. (2022). Designing a Redox Noninnocent 
Phenalenyl-Based Copper(II) Complex: An 
Autotandem Catalyst for the Selective Oxidation 
of Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAHs). ACS 
Omega, 7(10), 8789–8797. ISSN: 24701343. https://
doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.1c07051
3	

Andra, S., Balu, S. K., Ponnada, S., Mohan, S., 
Hossain, M. S., Sivakumar, B., … Muthalagu, 
M. (2022). Antimicrobial and Toxicity Studies 
of Dodonaea angustifolia Extracts-Mediated 
Green Synthesized Copper Oxide Particles. 
ChemistrySelect, 7(8). ISSN: 23656549. https://doi.
org/10.1002/slct.202104017
4	

Kumar, A., Sharma, N., Gutal, A. P., Kumar, D., Kumar, 
P., Paranjothy, M., & Kumar, M. (2022). Growth 
and NO2 gas sensing mechanisms of vertically 
aligned 2D SnS2 flakes by CVD: Experimental and 
DFT studies. Sensors and Actuators B: Chemical, 
353. ISSN: 09254005. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
snb.2021.131078
5	

Ponnada, S., Gorle, D. B., Kiai, M. S., Raju, C. V., 
Faraji, M., Sharma, R. K., & Nowduri, A. (2022). 
Understanding the endocrine disruptor and 
determination of bisphenol A by functional Cu-
BTABB-MOF/rGO composite as facile rapid 
electrochemical sensor: An experimental and DFT 
investigation. Analytical Methods, 14(5), 560–573. 
ISSN: 17599660. https://doi.org/10.1039/d1ay02150h
6	

Urgunde, A. B., Dhamija, A., & Gupta, R. (2022). 
Nickel Cobaltite Nanoplate-Based Electrochemical 
Sensing Platform from Printable Inks for 
Simultaneous Detection of Dopamine and Uric Acid. 
Chemistry - An Asian Journal, 17(2). ISSN: 18614728. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/asia.202101166
Publications
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

7	

Das, S., Azim, A., Hota, S. K., Panda, S. P., Murarka, 
S., & De Sarkar, S. (2021). An organophotoredox-
catalyzed redox-neutral cascade involving: N 
-(acyloxy)phthalimides and allenamides: Synthesis 
of indoles. Chemical Communications, 57(97), 
13130–13133. ISSN: 13597345. https://doi.org/10.1039/
d1cc05397c
8	

Kumar, P., Laishram, D., Sharma, R. K., Vinu, A., Hu, 
J., & Kibria, M. G. (2021). Boosting Photocatalytic 
Activity Using Carbon Nitride Based 2D/2D van 
der Waals Heterojunctions. Chemistry of Materials, 
33(23), 9012–9092. ISSN: 08974756. https://doi.
org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.1c03166
9	

Shejale, K. P., Krishnapriya, R., Patil, H., Laishram, 
D., Rawal, P., & Sharma, R. K. (2021). Recent 
advances in ultra-low temperature (sub-zero to 
100 °c) synthesis, mechanism and applications of 
titania (TiO2) nanoparticles. Materials Advances, 
2(23), 7502–7529. ISSN: 26335409. https://doi.
org/10.1039/d1ma00942g
10 
Naz, E. G., & Paranjothy, M. (2021). Theoretical 
studies of unimolecular decomposition of thiophene 
at high temperatures. Electronic Structure, 3(4). 
ISSN: 25161075. https://doi.org/10.1088/2516-1075/
ac391f
11	

Sharma, A., Sharma, R. K., Kim, Y.-K., Lee, H.-J., & 
Tripathi, K. M. (2021). Upgrading of seafood waste 
as a carbon source: Nano-world outlook. Journal 
of Environmental Chemical Engineering, 9(6). ISSN: 
22133437. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jece.2021.106656
12 
Krishnapriya, R., Nizamudeen, C., Saini, B., 
Mozumder, M. S., Sharma, R. K., & Mourad, A.-
H. I. (2021). MOF-derived Co2+-doped TiO2 
nanoparticles as photoanodes for dye-sensitized 
solar cells. Scientific Reports, 11(1). ISSN: 20452322. 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-95844-4
13 
Mali, G., Chauhan, A. N. S., Chavan, K. A., & Erande, 
R. D. (2021). Development and Applications of 
Double Diels-Alder Reaction in Organic Synthesis. 
Asian Journal of Organic Chemistry, 10(11), 2848–
2868. ISSN: 21935807. https://doi.org/10.1002/
ajoc.202100493
14 
Kumar, D., Priyadarshini, C. H., Sudha, V., Sherine, 
J., Harinipriya, S., & Pal, S. (2021). Investigation 
of Adsorption Behavior of Anticancer Drug on 
Zinc Oxide Nanoparticles: A Solid State NMR 
and Cyclic Voltammetry (CV) Analysis. Journal 
of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 110(11), 3726–3734. 
ISSN: 00223549. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
xphs.2021.08.003
15 
Jalwal, S., Atreya, V., Singh, T., & Chakraborty, S. 
(2021). Base metal catalyzed (De)hydrogenative 
formylation and methylation reactions utilizing 
carbon dioxide and methanol as C1 sources. 
Tetrahedron Letters, 82. ISSN: 00404039. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.tetlet.2021.153362
16 
Ponnada, S., Kiai, M. S., Gorle, D. B., Nowduri, A., 
& Sharma, R. K. (2021). Insight into the Role and 
Strategies of Metal-Organic Frameworks in Direct 
Methanol Fuel Cells: A Review. Energy and Fuels, 
35(19), 15265–15284. ISSN: 08870624. https://doi.
org/10.1021/acs.energyfuels.1c02010
17 
Urgunde, A. B., Bahuguna, G., Dhamija, A., Kamboj, 
V., & Gupta, R. (2021). Scalable Production of 
Nickel Cobaltite Nanoplates using Solution-
Processed Inks for OER Electrocatalysis. Materials 
Research Bulletin, 142. ISSN: 00255408. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.materresbull.2021.111380
18 
Dutta, S., Pal, S., Sharma, R. K., Panwar, P., Kant, V., & 
Khola, O. P. S. (2021). Implication of Wood-Derived 
Hierarchical Carbon Nanotubes for Micronutrient 
Delivery and Crop Biofortification. ACS Omega, 
6(37), 23654–23665. ISSN: 24701343. https://doi.
org/10.1021/acsomega.1c03215
19 
Ponnada, S., Gorle, D. B., Kiai, M. S., Rajagopal, S., 
Sharma, R. K., & Nowduri, A. (2021). A facile, cost-
effective, rapid, single-step synthesis of Ag-Cu 
decorated ZnO nanoflower-like composites (NFLCs) 
for electrochemical sensing of dopamine. Materials 
Advances, 2(18), 5986–5996. ISSN: 26335409. 
https://doi.org/10.1039/d1ma00319d
20 
Bahuguna, G., Verma, M., & Gupta, R. (2021). 
Chemical insights into electrophilic fluorination of 
SnO2for photoelectrochemical applications. Journal 
of Materials Chemistry A, 9(35), 19965–19974. ISSN: 
20507488. https://doi.org/10.1039/d1ta02560k
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

21 
Mishra, A., Kumar, R., Lama, P., & Metre, R. K. (2021). 
Octanuclear Organotin Copper Sulfide Cage 
[(RSnCu)4(μ3-S)8]·2CHCl3 (R = 2-phenylazophenyl) 
Assembled using Intramolecular Coordination 
Approach: Synthesis, Structure and DFT-NBO-
AIM Analysis. Journal of Molecular Structure, 
1239. ISSN: 00222860. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
molstruc.2021.130458
22 
Laishram, D., Krishnapriya, R., Saini, B., Gupta, U., 
Soni, V. K., & Sharma, R. K. (2021). Nickel and cobalt 
transfigured natural clay: A green catalyst for low-
temperature catalytic soot oxidation. New Journal 
of Chemistry, 45(32), 14751–14758. ISSN: 11440546. 
https://doi.org/10.1039/d1nj01346g
23 
Jain, A., & Rana, N. K. (2021). Review on Asymmetric 
Catalysis Employing 5H-Oxazol-4-Ones as 
α-Hydroxy Carboxylic Acid Surrogates. Advanced 
Synthesis and Catalysis, 363(16), 3879–3912. ISSN: 
16154150. https://doi.org/10.1002/adsc.202100456
24 
Sharma, P. R., Pandey, S., Malik, A., Choudhary, G., 
Soni, V. K., & Sharma, R. K. (2021). Calix[4]amido 
crown functionalized visible sensors for cyanide 
and iodide anions. RSC Advances, 11(43), 26644–
26654. ISSN: 20462069. https://doi.org/10.1039/
d1ra03608d
25 
Chaubey, B., Chandrakumar, N., & Pal, S. (2021). 
Preferential solvation of carbohydrates in water-
trifluoroethanol mixtures: a solvent detected 
heteronuclear NMR approach. Physical Chemistry 
Chemical Physics, 23(27), 14564–14568. ISSN: 
14639076. https://doi.org/10.1039/d1cp01531a
26 
Mukhamatdinov, I. I., Salih, I. S., Rakhmatullin, I. Z., 
Sviridenko, N. N., Pevneva, G. S., Sharma, R. K., 
& Vakhin, A. V. (2021). Transformation of resinous 
components of the ashalcha field oil during catalytic 
aquathermolysis in the presence of a cobalt-
containing catalyst precursor. Catalysts, 11(6). ISSN: 
20734344. https://doi.org/10.3390/catal11060745
27 
Das, S., Parida, S. K., Mandal, T., Hota, S. K., 
Roy, L., De Sarkar, S., & Murarka, S. (2021). An 
organophotoredox-catalyzed redox-neutral cascade 
involving: N -(acyloxy)phthalimides and maleimides. 
Organic Chemistry Frontiers, 8(10), 2256–2262. 
ISSN: 20524110. https://doi.org/10.1039/d1qo00170a
28 
Malik, S., & Debnath, A. (2021). Dehydration induced 
dynamical heterogeneity and ordering mechanism 
of lipid bilayers. Journal of Chemical Physics, 154(17). 
ISSN: 00219606. https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0044614
29 
Parida, S. K., Hota, S. K., Kumar, R., & Murarka, S. 
(2021). Late-Stage Alkylation of Heterocycles Using 
N-(Acyloxy)phthalimides. Chemistry - An Asian 
Journal, 16(8), 879–889. ISSN: 18614728. https://doi.
org/10.1002/asia.202100151
30 
Saini, R., Globisch, C., Franke, L., Peter, C., & 
Debnath, A. (2021). Interactions Determining the 
Structural Integrity of the Trimer of Plant Light 
Harvesting Complex in Lipid Membranes. Journal 
of Membrane Biology, 254(2), 157–173. ISSN: 
00222631. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00232-020-
00162-x
31 
Chaubey, B., Singh, P., & Pal, S. (2021). Solution-state 
NMR evaluation of molecular interaction between 
monoaromatic carboxylic acids and dissolved 
humic acid. Environmental Science and Pollution 
Research, 28(14), 17775–17788. ISSN: 09441344. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11356-020-12092-1
32 
Gupta, U., Krishnapriya, R., & Sharma, R. K. (2021). A 
Sustainable Palladium-Intercalated Montmorillonite 
Clay Catalytic System for Imine Hydrogenation 
under Mild Conditions. ChemPlusChem, 86(4), 
540–548. ISSN: 21926506. https://doi.org/10.1002/
cplu.202000760
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start Date End Date
1 Catalytic Upgrading of Bio-Oil to
Transport Fuel DBT Rakesh
Sharma H94,79,277 24-Dec-14 31-Mar-21
2 Unnat Bhart Abhiyan MHRD Ananya
Debanath H3,77,000 06-Mar-17 05-Mar-
20
3 Solid state Nuclear Magnetic
Resonance (NMR) assessment of zinc
oxide (ZnO) nanomaterial based drug
delivery systems SERB (DST) Samanwita
Pal H34,45,520 28-Aug-17 27-Aug-
20
4 Impact of Rainwater Harvesting on
Groundwater Quality in India with
Specific Reference to Fluoride and
Mircropollutants DST Rakesh
Sharma H75,27,600 10-May-18 16-Feb-
22
5 Tandem Annulations Involving
Metallocarbenes: Towards Diverse
Molecular Architectures SERB Sandip
Murarka H33,00,000 10-Jul-18 09-Jul-21
6 Development of Catalytic Diastereo
and Enantiodivergent Tandem
Reactions DST Nirmal
Kumar Rana H35,00,000 02-Jul-18 01-Nov-21
7 Multiparticle Entanglement, Nonlocality
and Quantum Information processing-
Analysing the role and applications of
statistical correlations SERB Atul Kumar H19,50,877 18-Mar-19 18-Mar-22
8 Chiral Calix-crowns for asymmetric
phase transfer catalyst DST Pragati R
Sharma H34,68,800 01-Oct-19 30-Sep-
22
9 Investigating asymmetric mixed
surfactant bilayers using dual-scale
simulations to correlate bilayer
properties with thermodynamics of
asymmetry SERB Ananya
Debanath H44,36,420 07-Feb-20 06-Feb-
23
10 Modeling Organic and Biochemical
phenomena via direct chemical
dynamics simulations SERB Manikandan
Paranjothy H51,88,820 06-Feb-20 05-Feb-
23
11 FIST Project DST-FIST
Program-2019 Rohan D
Erande H2,16,00,000 18-Sep-20 17-Sep-25
12 Capturing and Real-Time Monitoring
of Dynamic Instability of TCR-PMHC
Bond for Probing Serial Engagement
Using Single-Molecule FRET and
Biomembrane Force Probe in Live T
Cell SERB Dibyendu
Kumar
Sasmal H28,05,000 12-Nov-20 11-Nov-22
Projects
Sponsored Projects
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start Date End Date
13 Sustainable Non-Noble Transition
Metal Based Pincer Catalytic Design for
High-Value Chemical Transformations SERB-SRG Subrata
Chakraborty H29,26,000 17-Dec-20 16-Dec-
22
14 Tandem Reactions Utilizing Nitrogen
Ylides: Unified Approach for
Asymmetric Synthesis of Diverse
Heterocycles SERB-CRG Nirmal
Kumar Rana H58,48,832 17-Dec-20 16-Dec-
23
15 Main-Group Organornetallic complexes
Based Molecular Materials For
Applications in Molecular Electronics SERB-EEQ Ramesh
K.Matre H36,82,940 05-Dec-
20 04-Dec-
23
16 Development of Functionalized Metal
Oxides and Layered Materials for
Environmental Sensors SERB-CRG Ritu Gupta H73,45,096 22-Dec-
20 21-Dec-
23
17 Natural clay-plasma catalysed
hydrogenation of carbon-dioxide for
methanol production under ambient
conditions SERB-CRG Rakesh
Sharma H28,73,200 22-Dec-
20 21-Dec-
23
18 Cascade Annulations Involving Higher-
valent Organometallic Compounds:
Towards Diverse Molecular
Frameworks CSIR Sandip
Murarka H21,94,000 15-Aug-21 02-Jun-
24
19 Direct Approaches to γ- and
δ-Lactones Under Continuous
Flow Conditions Using Packed-bed
Immobilized Catalysts CSIR Nirmal
Kumar Rana H19,00,000 24-Sep-21 23-Sep-
24
20 Scale up, technological optimization
and development of catalysts for Algal
Biomass to Biodiesel and Bio-Jet Fuel DBT PAN IIT
Center for
Bioenergy:
Phase II Rakesh
Sharma H1,48,41,360 27-Sep-21 26-Sep-
26
21 Preparation of Carbon Foam using a
Blowing Agent DRDO
Jodhpur Ritu Gupta H9,90,150 21-Oct-21 20-Oct-
22
22 Scalable coating of metal oxides on
hybrid transparent electrodes and
fabrication of smart window devices DST-TDT-
Advance
manufacturing
scheme Ritu Gupta H29,86,800 08-Mar-22 07-Mar-
25
23 Empowering S&T with Women -A Step
towards a New Era SERB Ritu Gupta H3,50,000 22-Mar-22 21-Mar-25
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S. No Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start Date End Date
1 Towards the development of low-cost
water quality sensors Panasonic R&D
Center of India Rakesh
Sharma H2,35,563 01-Oct-14 30-Nov-
14
2 Towards the development of low-cost
water quality sensors Panasonic R&D
Center of India Rakesh
Sharma H64,37,502 16-Feb-15 31-Dec-17
3 Utilization of hydrogen as fuel in
cement production Ultratech Cement Rakesh
Sharma H10,00,000 01-Oct-19 31-May-
20
4 Development of Microelectrode
Array for Real-Time Electrochemical
Sensing SERB women
Excellence
Award Ritu
Gupta H18,00,000 23-Mar-21 22-Mar-
24
Consultancy Projects
Closed Projects
1) 
New Single Source Precursors for Potential Nanostructured Bi2Te3/sb2Te3 System Based 
Thermoelectric Materials
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB)
PI: Ramesh K. Metre	
Rs. 32.12 Lakhs	Start Date: 05-Oct-17	
End Date: 21-Sep-21
Outcome: This project is about the synthesis and structural characterization of new single source precursors 
for nanostructured Bi2Te3/Sb2Te3 system based thermoelectric materials. The main aim of this is to find 
viable synthetic methods for suitable molecular precursors for Bi2Te3/Sb2Te3 systems and assemble 
them into nanostructured material via solution phase decomposition techniques. These nanostructured 
materials are expected to have enhanced thermoelectric properties. Molecular organometallic complexes 
are also looked upon as promising single source precursors for advanced materials. Keeping an eye 
towards envisioned technological applications, molecular organometallic complexes were synthesized and 
structurally characterized to explore their potential applications as molecular materials in various electronic 
devices.
2) Outreach Workshop-Prime Minister's Fellowship for Doctoral Research
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB)
PI: Samanwita Pal Rs. 2.37 Lakhs Start Date: 12-Feb-2019	End Date: 17-Jul-2021
Outcome: The institute hosted an Outreach workshop for the Prime Minister’s Fellowship Scheme for 
Doctoral Research on 19th February 2019. The SERB (Science Engineering and Research Board) and CII 
(Confederation of Indian Industries) have partnered together to provide industry connect to research taking 
place in academia and facilitate more PhDs coming out of institutions doing industrial R&D. It was conducted 
in the context to spread awareness regarding the scheme. During this workshop, a number of prominent 
local, national and international companies also participated. This platform was greatly applauded by the 
attendees and the sole cause of hosting the program was successfully achieved. PhD students from various 
Departments presented their research work through posters to initiate discussions with the attendees from 
the Industries for possible collaboration and funding.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Department of Civil and 
Infrastructural Engineering
Introduction to the department:
The Department of Civil and Infrastructure Engineering, 
IIT Jodhpur was established in January 2020 and started 
academic programs in the year 2020-2021. The civil and 
infrastructure industry has undergone profound changes 
in recent years due to rapid urbanization and increasing 
quality of life that demand reliable and intelligent 
infrastructure systems. The new-age designs and 
innovations in the civil and infrastructure industry can only 
be driven by a group of engineering graduates having 
multidisciplinary training and a sound understanding 
of emerging technologies. With this viewpoint, the 
department offers unique programs that incorporate and 
integrate the elements of conventional civil engineering 
with 
advanced 
transformative 
technologies 
such 
as artificial intelligence (AI), cyber-physical-systems
(CPS), digital twins (DT), and automated management 
and information systems. Additionally, a major thrust 
is also planned on the design, implementation, and 
maintenance of large-scale integrated infrastructure 
systems across different domains. The focus areas of the 
department includes Energy and Environment, Building 
Sciences, Safety, and Services, Applications of AI, IoT, 
and CPS in Civil and Infrastructure Engineering, Smart 
and Integrated Infrastructure, Urban Architecture and 
Planning, Construction Technology and Management, 
 
Transportation Engineering, Structural Engineering, 
Geotechnical Engineering, Water resources Engineering, 
and Engineering Geology.
An overview of the department and its administrative 
structure are shown in Fig 1 and Fig. 2.
Figure 1: Department overview
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Vision and Mission
The Department strives to be an internationally 
renowned center of excellence in education, research, 
and innovation with a major focus on sustainability and 
digitalization of infrastructure.
»
Develop unique courses in the field of Civil and 
Infrastructure Engineering through advanced 
UG and PG programs with a multidisciplinary 
perspective.
»
Establish high quality teaching and research 
facilities in the areas of smart, resilient, and 
sustainable infrastructure engineering to foster the 
needs of society.
»
Promote consilient research through application 
of AI/ML, cyber-physical-systems, digital twin and 
advanced visualization in the areas of Energy, 
Environment, Transportation, and Construction.
»
Promote innovative and entrepreneurial activities 
through intellectual property generation and 
transfer.
»
Nurture the potential of students to become 
future leaders in the Civil Engineering industry for 
leadership achievements, scientific breakthroughs 
and social welfare.
Figure 2: Administrative structure (2021-2022)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Faculty Members
Ranju Mohan
Head of the Department
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Traffic flow theory; Macroscopic and 
Microscopic modelling of traffic flow; 
Connected and autonomous vehicles; 
Dynamic Traffic Assignment
Aali Pant
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Geoenvironmental Engineering; 
Reinforced Soil; Sustainable 
Geotechnics; Machine Learning
Debanjan Guha Roy
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Rock mechanics, reservoir 
geomechanics, engineering geology
Bishwajit Bhattacharjee
Adjunct Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Concrete Technology and Building 
Science
Amit Sharma
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Atmospheric Chemistry; Air Pollution; 
Climate change; Impact on crops and 
human health
Tushar Kanti Datta, FNAE
Adjunct Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Structural Dynamics, Offshore 
Structures, Seismic Risk and 
Response Analysis of Structures, 
Wind induced Vibration of Structures , 
Disaster Mitigation, Structural Control
Amit Kumar Rathi
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Structural Engineering; RCC Design; 
Steel Structures and Pre-Engineered 
Buildings; Reliability Analysis and 
Design; Uncertainty Quantification; 
Stochastic Modelling and Mechanics; 
Composite Materials; Vibration Control 
and Structural Health Monitoring
Deepika Bhattu
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Emission sources, characterization and 
secondary aerosol formation potential; 
Real-time aerosol measurements using 
mass spectrometry techniques; Source 
apportionment techniques; Physical, 
chemical and hygroscopic properties 
of atmospheric aerosols and cloud 
condensation nuclei (CCN) activity
Subhamoy Bhattacharya
Adjunct Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Offshore Engineering, Wind Turbine 
Design
Bhupendra Singh
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Pavement Materials; Pavement 
Analysis; Pavement Design; 
Sustainable Pavement Materials
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Mayank Suman
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Effect of changing climate on 
hydrological extremes; Climate 
change mitigation strategies; Remote 
sensing application in hydrology
Pradeep Kumar Dammala
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Soil Dynamics; Experimental 
Geotechnics; Seismic Liquefaction; 
Seismic Ground Response Analysis; 
Soil Structure Interaction; Pile 
Foundations; Seismic Requalification 
studies; Sustainable Geotechnics; 
Stability Analysis of Earth Retaining 
Structures
Tekcham Gishan Singh
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Civil Engineering, Structural 
Engineering, Steel Structures
P. Ravi Prakash
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Computational Mechanics; Structural 
Fire Engineering; Application of AI 
in Structural Engineering, Building 
Information Modelling (BIM)
Saran Aadhar
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Surface Hydrology; Hydroclimatic 
extremes; Hydrologic modeling in 
natural and anthropogenic climate; 
Impact of climate variability and 
climate change on water resources
Trishikhi Raychoudhury
Associate Professor
Specialization/ Research interest:
Environmental Engineering; 
colloid filtration; contaminant fate 
and transport; water treatment; 
applications and implications of 
nanotechnology
Description of Research Groups
Geotechnical and Geological Engineering: Reinforced Soil; Sustainable Geotechnics, Soil Dynamics; Experimental 
Geotechnics; Seismic Liquefaction; Seismic Ground Response Analysis; Soil Structure Interaction; Pile Foundations; 
Seismic Requalification studies; Sustainable Geotechnics; Stability Analysis of Earth Retaining Structures; Oil and 
Gas Geomechanics; Slope Stability Analysis
Number of Research scholars: 4
Structural Engineering: Reliability Analysis and Design; Uncertainty Quantification; Stochastic Modelling and 
Mechanics; Composite Materials; Vibration Control and Structural Health Monitoring; Computational Mechanics; 
Structural Fire Engineering;Steel Structures; Discrete element modeling
Number of Research Scholars: 6
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl.
No. Name of the Programme Level: UG/PG/
Research Number of Students
Enrolled
1 B Tech Civil and Infrastructure Engineering UG 85
2 M Tech Civil and Infrastructure Engineering with Specialization in
Energy PG 17
3 M Tech Civil and Infrastructure Engineering with Specialization in
Environment PG 20
4 M Tech-Ph D Civil and Infrastructure Engineering with
Specialization in Energy Research 2
5 M Tech-Ph D Civil and Infrastructure Engineering with
Specialization in Environment Research 1
6 Ph D Research 13
Environmental Engineering: Air Pollution; Climate change; Impact on crops and human health,characterization 
and secondary aerosol formation potential; Real-time aerosol measurements using mass spectrometry techniques; 
Source apportionment techniques; colloid filtration; contaminant fate and transport; water treatment; applications 
and implications of nanotechnology 
Number of Research scholars: 2
Hydrology and Water resources: Effect of changing climate on hydrological extremes; Climate change mitigation 
strategies; Remote sensing application in hydrology, Surface Hydrology; Hydroclimatic extremes; Hydrologic 
modeling in natural and anthropogenic climate; Impact of climate variability and climate change on water resources;
Number of Research scholars: 0
Traffic and Transportation: Macroscopic and Microscopic modelling of traffic flow; Connected and autonomous 
vehicles; Dynamic Traffic Assignment; Sustainable Pavement Materials
Number of Research scholars: 4
Smart Infrastructure Engineering: Intelligent transport systems; Development of Advanced BIM models; BIM based 
sustainability rating systems
Number of Research scholars: 0
Going forward, the department will focus on expanding interdisciplinary research in smart and sustainable 
infrastructure engineering.
Academic Programmes
Significant Research Achievements
Technology Transfers/Product Developed/Technology Licenced/Release of Data
1.	

Dr. Saran Aadhar: Real-time drought early warning and forecast system over India with Prof. Vimal Mishra from 
IIT Gandhinagar.
2. 
Dr. Mayank Suman: HydroClimatic Conceptual Streamflow model for modeling streamflow under changing 
climate with Dr. Rajib Maity, IIT Kharagpur.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Faculty/ Department Laurels if any
1.	

Dr. Ranju Mohan: DST-SERB Start up Research Grant 
2021-2023
2. 
Dr. Saran Aadhar - Recipient of 2022 Best 
Discussion Award from Environmental and Water 
Resources Institute (EWRI), American Society of Civil 
Engineers.
3. 
Dr. Saran Aadhar- Recipient of Sivapalan Young 
Scientists Travel Award (SYSTA) to participate in the 
IAHS 2022 Scientific Assembly.
4. 
Dr. P. Ravi Prakash- Absorbed into the editorial 
board of Frontiers in Built Environment- Fire 
resistant engineering.
5. 
Dr. Amit Kumar Rathi - Joined the Board of Directors 
for Executive Excellence Program, Association of 
Infrastructure Industry (India) as Special Invitee.
Student Laurels, if any
1.	

Tarun Patodia (B20CI043), Ankit Prakash(B20CI012), 
and Ritika Jain (B20CI037) have received third prize 
in the UltraTech Shining Star Contest 2022
2. 
Ashish Kumar (M21CI053), Tej Sushant Kulkarni 
(M21CI064), and Jai Goyal (B20CI018) were selected 
in an Internship Program(13Dec 2021-28 Feb2022) 
organized by the Indian Road Safety campaign in 
association with the Ministry of Road Transport and 
Highway.
3. 
Vishal Tak (M21CI061), MTech student, has been 
selected for a fully funded 7-Day workshop on 
“RS and GIS for Agriculture and Water Resources 
Management” at IIT Hyderabad.
4. 
Rampunit Kumar (M20CI061) was recently 
selected for a special award category in a national 
competition (Climate data hackathon) themed 
‘Climate resilient agriculture’ organized by United 
nations development programme (UNDP) and 
Government of Telangana. He was also invited and 
currently working on a startup accelerator program 
to initiate a startup in the same area. This all is the 
work of an interdisciplinary team (including one 
student from AI at IITJ and rest from other institutes)
5. 
Rampunit Kumar (M20CI061) was placed as an 
analyst in lumiq.ai, an artificial intelligence based 
company.
6. 
Aman Kumar Meena (M20CI051) and Mustafa Ali 
(M20CI059) were placed as Management Trainees 
in ICICI Bank.
7.	

Kandukuri Venkata Subrahmanya Srimukh Babu 
(M20CI003), Sumaja Kolli (M20CI013), and Kartik 
Sharma (M20CI058) were placed in ET MEDIA LABS 
as a Business Analyst.
Laboratories and equipment
1. Central facilities :
a. 
Computer controlled compression testing 
machine (capacity 3000kN)
b. 
Computer controlled universal testing machine 
(capacity 1000kN) (Figure )
c. Ultrasonic pulse velocity tester
Figure 3: Universal Testing Machine
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

2. Geotechnical Engineering Laboratory :
a. 
Basic soil characterization (index and strength properties of soils) equipment along with advanced cyclic 
triaxial testing apparatus for analyzing dynamic response of soils (Figure 4).
Figure 4: Selected Basic Equipments in the Geotechnical Engineering Laboratory
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

3. 
Transportation Engineering Laboratory 
(Figure 5):
a. 
Basic Bitumen and Aggregate Characterisation 
Tests
b. Marshall Mix Design
c. Rotational Viscometer
d. Rolling Thin Film Oven
e. Indirect Tensile Strength
f.	
cannon manning viscometer
g. Asphalt Mixer theoretical density meter.
Figure 5: Transportation Engineering Laboratory Equipments
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

4. 
Structural Engineering Laboratory 
(Figure 6):
a. Flexural testing machine (capacity 100 kN)
b. Covermeter-rebar locator
c. Half cell potential meter
d. 
Basic cement concrete physical and non-
destructive test setup
e. Basic structural analysis/mechanics equipment.
5. Air Quality Monitoring Laboratory (Figure 7):
Gas analyzers such as CO, SO2, NO, NO2 and O3, Automatic Weather station, High Volume PM2.5 Sampler.
Figure 6: Structural Engineering Laboratory
Figure 7: Air Quality Monitoring Laboratory
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

6. Environmental Engineering laboratory (Figure 8):

Basic water quality testing facility, Wastewater characterization facility, Benchtop multimeter, COD thermoreactor, 
incubator, UV-Vis spectrophotometer and other basic equipment.
Figure 8: Water quality testing at Environmental Engineering Laboratory
7. Geological Engineering Laboratory:
a. Core cutter
8. Computational Laboratory Facilities:
a. 
Workstation- 4 Nos.- Windows 10 Pro, Tyrone, 
Intel Xeon silver 4216/Intel Xeon 2.10 GHz, 32 
Cores
b. 
Softwares: STAAD Pro, ArcGIS, VISSIM, EnViVer 
Pro, Plaxis 2D, RocScience, SAP, HydroMIKE, 
Abaqus
A Lab in charge/custodian with 2-years of tenure is 
assigned common for all laboratories.
Outreach activities
1.	

UG and PG openshouse- Yearly prior to admission 
(2020, 2021, 2022)
2. 
Departmental newsletters (half-yearly) - Vol 1 (Sep 
2021) and Vol 2 (March 2022) published
3. Industry Connect Summit (ICS) with
a. 
EDS Technologies and DASSAULT SYSTEMES- 
22nd Oct 2021
b. Renew Power- 19th March 2022
4. 
Dr. Deepika Bhattu and Dr, Ranju Mohan Institute 
of Repute (IoR) -IITJ - representative for National 
Knowledge Network (NKN) under National Clean Air 
Program (NCAP)
5. 
Dr. Ranju Mohan serves as Institute Representative, 
Kota City, Transport4All Challenge by Ministry of 
Urban Housing and Affairs (MoHUA)
6. 
Seminars/ Workshops/ Conferences 
organized
a. 
Dr. Bhupendra Singh: Conducted 5 day 
AICTE sponsored ATAL FDP Titled “Recent 
Advances in Pavement Analysis, Design, and 
Evaluation&quot; 20th to 24th September, 
2022.
b. 
Dr. Amit Kumar Rathi: Coordinated MDP on 
Structural Health Monitoring under Smart
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Infrastructure and Sustainability from 03-07 
January 2022 and delivered 7 lectures.
c. 
Dr. Ravi Prakash and Dr. Pradeep Kumar 
Dammala: Virtual Summer School 2021 - 
Introduction to Programming in Python 21st 
May-25th May 2021
d. 
Dr. Ranju Mohan: Technical Committee Member 
and Co-Chair for the session 'ITS and others', 
8th International Conference on Transportation 
System Engineering and Management (CTSEM), 
26-27th Aug 2021, Calicut, Kerala
e. 
Dr. Ranju Mohan: Conference Review 
Committee Member, 2nd International 
Conference on Sustainable Construction 
Technologies and Advancements in Civil 
Engineering (ScTACE), 14-16th October 2021, 
Bhimavaram
f.	

Dr. Bhupendra Singh Conducted an ATAL FDP 
on "Recent Advances in Pavement Analysis, 
Design, and Evaluation" from 20-24 september 
2021
g. 
Dr. Tekcham Gishan Singh served as a Session 
Chair for three technical parallel sessions at the 
international conference – “Indian Structural 
Steel Conference 2020 (ISSC)” held from 
January 06th to 08th, 2022 organized by 
Structural Steel Research Group, Indian Institute 
of Technology Hyderabad (IIT Hyderabad).
7. Lecture Series and Student Seminars
	
a. 
The department runs a webinar series on 
“Infrastructure, Energy, and Environment (IEE)” 
with distinguished national and international 
speakers from academic and industrial 
domains. To date, a total of nineteen webinar 
series have been conducted.
b. 
Mr. Shubham Dhaka (D20CI051), an M Tech-Ph 
D student delivered a talk on Seasonality of 
Meteorology and Air quality over Western India, 
as part of his research curriculum.
c. 
Dr. Pradeep Kumar Dammala: Keynote lecture 
at G H Raisoni College of Engineering and 
Management Wagholi, Pune on 30th July 2021 
during a 5 day short-term course on Recent 
Practices in Geotechnical and Transportation 
Engineering
d. 
Dr. Bhupendra Singh: Keynote lecture at 
G H Raisoni College of Engineering and 
Management Wagholi, Pune on 30th July 2021 
during a 5 day short-term course on Recent 
Practices in Geotechnical and Transportation 
Engineering.
e. 
Dr. Deepika Bhattu: Empanelment of the 
Institution as Environmental Auditor and faculty's
f.	

Appointment as Nodal Officer by Rajasthan 
State Pollution Control Board
g. 
Dr. Ranju Mohan: Invited talk, International 
Seminar on Advances in Civil Engineering 
Practices, Jodhpur Institute of Engineering and 
Technology (JIET), 21st April 2021
h. 
Dr. P. Ravi Prakash: Delivered a keynote lecture 
on “Applications of Discrete Element Method in 
Structural Engineering”, International Conference 
on Advances in Civil Engineering (ICACE-2021), 
K.L University, India on 26th June 2021.
i.	

Dr. Bhupendra Singh delivered a lecture 
on "Advances in Cold Mix Asphalt" in the 
workshop "Innovative Solutions forSustainable 
Constructions in Civil Engineering” held at 
Jaypee University of Information Technology 
Waknaghat on 5th Oct 2021
j.	

Dr. Bhupendra Singh delivered a Keynote 
speech on ""An Introduction to Cold Mix 
Asphalt"" in the workshop "Recent Practices in 
Geotechnical and Transportation Engineering" 
held at GHRCEM, Pune on 27th July 2021.
k. 
Dr. Bhupendra Singh presented a paper 
on "Use of Nano-materials to Enhance 
the Properties of Asphalt Mixtures" at the 
International Conference on Advances in 
Construction Materials and Structures (ICCMS 
2021) on 14th-19th December 2021.
l.	

Dr. P. Ravi Prakash delivered an expert lecture 
on "Discrete Element Method: Theoretical 
background and applications" in the FDP 
"Advancements in Geotechnical Engineering-
AGE 2021", November-2021, organized by the 
Department of Civil Engineering, as part of 
the Diamond Jubilee Year Celebrations of NIT 
Calicut.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start
Date End Date
1 Mechanical response of sedimentary rocks
under extreme conditions:implications for
cryogenic fracking DST-Inspire Debanjan
Guha Roy H35,00,000 28-Jun-
19 27-Jun-
24
1	

Moschos, V., Dzepina, K., Bhattu, D., Lamkaddam, 
H., Casotto, R., Daellenbach, K. R., … El Haddad, I. 
(2022). Equal abundance of summertime natural and 
wintertime anthropogenic Arctic organic aerosols. 
Nature Geoscience, 15(3), 196–202. ISSN: 17520894. 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41561-021-00891-1
2	

Sharma, A., Valdes, A. C. F., & Lee, Y. (2022). 
Impact of Wildfires on Meteorology and Air Quality 
(PM2.5 and O3) over Western United States 
during September 2017. Atmosphere, 13(2). ISSN: 
20734433. https://doi.org/10.3390/atmos13020262
3	

S. Raj, S., Krüger, O. O., Sharma, A., Panda, U., 
Pöhlker, C., Walter, D., Forster, D.J., Singh, R.P., 
Swetha, S., Klimach, T., Darbyshire, E., Martin, 
S.T., MaFiggans, G., Coe, H., Allan, J., Ravikrishna, 
R., Soni, V.K., Su, H., Andeae, M.O., Poschl, U., 
Pohlker, M.L., Gunthe, S. S. (2021). Planetary 
Boundary Layer Height Modulates Aerosol—Water 
Vapor Interactions During Winter in the Megacity 
of Delhi. Journal of Geophysical Research: 
Atmospheres, 126(24). ISSN: 2169897X. https://doi.
org/10.1029/2021JD035681
4	

Thamban, N. M., Lalchandani, V., Kumar, V., Mishra, 
S., Bhattu, D., Slowik, J. G., … Tripathi, S. N. (2021). 
Evolution of size and composition of fine particulate 
matter in the Delhi megacity during later winter. 
Atmospheric Environment, 267. ISSN: 13522310. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosenv.2021.118752
5	

Ojha, N., Girach, I., Sharma, K., Sharma, A., Singh, 
N., & Gunthe, S. S. (2021). Exploring the potential 
of machine learning for simulations of urban ozone 
variability. Scientific Reports, 11(1). ISSN: 20452322. 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-01824-z
6	

Singh, T. G., & Singh, K. D. (2021). Design of 
perforated cold-formed steel hollow stub columns 
using direct strength method. Thin-Walled
7	

Singh, B., Prasad, D., & Kant, R. R. (2021). Effect of 
lime filler on RCA incorporated bituminous mixture. 
Cleaner Engineering and Technology, 4. ISSN: 
26667908. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clet.2021.100166
8	

Shukla, A. K., Lalchandani, V., Bhattu, D., Dave, J. 
S., Rai, P., Thamban, N. M., … Tripathi, S. N. (2021). 
Real-time quantification and source apportionment 
of fine particulate matter including organics and 
elements in Delhi during summertime. Atmospheric 
Environment, 261. ISSN: 13522310. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.atmosenv.2021.118598
9	

Pulatsu, B., Gonen, S., Erdogmus, E., Lourenço, 
P. B., Lemos, J. V., & Prakash, R. (2021). In-plane 
structural performance of dry-joint stone masonry 
Walls: A spatial and non-spatial stochastic 
discontinuum analysis. Engineering Structures, 
242. ISSN: 01410296. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
engstruct.2021.112620
10 
Mohan, R., & Ramadurai, G. (2021). Multi-class 
traffic flow model based on three dimensional 
flow–concentration surface. Physica A: 
Statistical Mechanics and Its Applications, 
577. ISSN: 03784371. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
physa.2021.126060
11	

Pospisilova, V., Bell, D. M., Lamkaddam, H., Bertrand, 
A., Wang, L., Bhattu, D., Zhou, X., Dommen, J., 
Prevot, S.H.P., Baltensperger, U., Haddad, I.E., 
Slowik, J. G. (2021). Photodegradation of α-Pinene 
Secondary Organic Aerosol Dominated by 
Moderately Oxidized Molecules. Environmental 
Science and Technology, 55(10), 6936–6943. ISSN: 
0013936X. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.0c06752
Publications
Projects
Sponsored Research Projects
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start
Date End Date
2 Utilization of the Inferior Quality Aggregate
in Hot,Warm and Cold Mix Asphalt NHAI Bhupendra
Singh H20,76,514 04-Nov-
20 03-Nov-
23
3 Dynamic Traffic Assignment Model for Multi-
Class Traffic Lacking Lane Discipline SERB-SRG Ranju
Mohan H29,92,240 27-Dec-
21 26-Dec-
23
4 Source apportionment study,Emission
Inventory and Carrying Capacity for Kota
city, Rajasthan RSPCB,
Jaipur Deepika
Bhattu H1,15,27,600 10-Feb-
22 09-Jul-23
5 Construction of GPS Station in IIT Jodhpur
by National Geophysical Research Institute
(NGRI), Hyderabad NGRI Debanjan
Guha Roy H89,100 05-Aug-
21 04-Aug-
23
S.
No Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start
Date End
Date
1 Analysis of Fiber Glass Mast Tower due
to Wind Load Ercon Composites
Jodhpur Amit Kumar
Rathi H1,65,000 15-Mar-21 27-Apr-
21
2 Sand dune mitigation measures for the
proposed Haphasar Solar Park SBSR Power
Cleantech Eleven
Pvt. Ltd. Pradeep
Kumar
Dammala H9,99,999 25-Aug-
21 24-
Feb-22
3 Structural proof checking, supervision
consultancy and regular inspections of
warehouse construction at Anoopgarh Rajasthan State
Warehousing
Corporation (RSWC) Amit Kumar
Rathi H9,42,260 22-Sep-
21 21-Sep-
23
4 Structural proof checking, supervision
consultancy and regular inspections of
warehouse construction at Ramgarh Rajasthan State
Warehousing
Corporation (RSWC) Amit Kumar
Rathi H10,55,009 22-Sep-
21 21-Sep-
23
5 Structural proof checking, supervision
consultancy and regular inspections of
warehouse construction at Mohangarh Rajasthan State
Warehousing
Corporation (RSWC) Amit Kumar
Rathi H9,42,260 22-Sep-
21 21-Sep-
23
6 Structural proof checking, supervision
consultancy and regular inspections of
warehouse construction at Dantaur Rajasthan State
Warehousing
Corporation (RSWC) Amit Kumar
Rathi H8,13,404 22-Sep-
21 21-Sep-
23
7 Analysis/Verification and Validation
of design for read construction works
using CTB layers between KM 0.0 to
KM 29.0 HANLE-CHUMAR and KM
36.0 to KM 58.0 MAHE-DEBRING roads
under Project Himank,BRO TARU Enterprises
Pvt.Ltd Amit Kumar
Rathi H1,18,000 17-Feb-
22 16-Mar-
22
8 Suitability Checking of Cracked Isolated
Footing DEE VEE Project
Ltd Amit Kumar
Rathi H1,18,000 11-Jan-22 25-
Feb-22
S.
No Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start
Date End
Date
1 Recent Advances in Pavement
Analysis,Design and Evaluation AICTE-ATAL Bhupendra
Singh H93,000 25-Aug-
21 25-
Nov-21
Consultancy Projects
Completed Projects
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Department of Computer 
Science & Engineering
Introduction to the department:
Computer Science and Engineering, today, plays a 
major role in transforming every aspect of human life - in 
addressing social challenges and catalyzing the ongoing 
wave of the industrial revolution. The department is 
driven by its commitment to excel in next generation 
technology development and research. Our mission is 
to be among the top 10 departments in terms of research 
contributions, practical impact, and applications of 
Computer Science and Engineering in the country in 
the next 3 years, and internationally well known in some 
focused areas in the next 5 years.
The faculty members work in different core and allied 
areas of computer science including theoretical computer 
science, high performance computing, networking,
software, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, and 
cyber-physical system security. The research activities 
of the department are supported by agencies such as 
the Department of Science and Technology, Ministry of 
Electronics and Information Technology, and Ministry of 
Home Affairs. The department works closely with industry 
leaders like Microsoft, Meta, Accenture, Intel, and TCS, 
and academic and research collaborators like IIT Delhi, 
IIT Kanpur, IIT Bombay, and AIIMS Jodhpur. The faculty 
members have several international collaborations with 
universities like University of Texas A&M at Kingsville 
and SUNY at Buffalo. The department is steadily striving 
towards excellence in both academics, research and 
service to the community with active participation from 
faculty, staff and students.
Faculty Members
Kshitij Gajjar
Assistant Professor
Ph.D.: Tata Institute of Fundamental 
Research, Mumbai
Lawqueen Kanesh
Assistant Professor
Ph.D.: Institute of Mathematical 
Sciences, Chennai
Faculty details
The following Faculty Members joined the department during the year 2021-22
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Richa Singh
Professor and Head
Ph.D.: West Virginia University
Anand Mishra
Assistant Professor
Ph.D.: International Institute of 
Information Technology Hyderabad
Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay
Assistant Professor
Ph.D.: Indian Institute of Technology 
Madras
Deepak Mishra
Assistant Professor
Ph.D.: Indian Institute of Technology 
Delhi
Gaurav Harit
Associate Professor
Ph.D.: Indian Institute of Technology 
Delhi
Pallavi Jain
Assistant Professor
Ph.D.: Dayalbagh Educational Institute 
(Deemed University)
Suchetana Chakraborty
Assistant Professor
Ph.D. : Indian Institute of Technology 
Guwahati
Santanu Chaudhury
Professor
Ph.D.: Indian Institute of Technology 
Kharagpur
Angshuman Paul
Assistant Professor
Ph.D.: Indian Statistical Institute 
Kolkata
Debasis Das
Assistant Professor
Ph.D.: Indian Institute of Technology 
Patna
Dip Sankar Banerjee
Assistant Professor
Ph.D.: International Institute of 
Information Technology Hyderabad
Mayank Vatsa
Professor	
Ph.D.: West Virginia University
Romi Banerjee
Assistant Professor
Ph.D.: Calcutta University, Indian 
Statistical Institute
Suman Kundu
Assistant Professor
Ph.D.: Indian Statistical Institute, 
Jadavpur University
Following are the Faculty members associated with the department:
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sumit Kalra
Assistant Professor
Ph.D.: Indian Institute of Technology 
Kanpur
Yashaswi Verma
Assistant Professor
Ph.D.: International Institute of 
Information Technology Hyderabad
Adjunct Faculty
Ajay Kumar
Professor
The Hong Kong Polytechnic 
University
Ph.D.: The University of Hong Kong
Sajal K. Das
Professor and Daniel St. Clair 
Endowed Chair
Missouri University of Science and 
Technology
Ph.D.: University of Central Florida
Aloknath De
Corporate Vice President
Samsung Electronics & CTO Samsung 
R&D Institute India – Bangalore
Ph.D. (Signal Processing & 
Communication): McGill University
Sameep Mehta
IBM Distinguished Engineer- AI & 
Hybrid Data
IBM Research
Ph.D. (Computer Science): Ohio State 
University
Nalini Ratha
Empire Innovation Professor
State University at Buffalo
Ph.D.: Michigan State University
Hiranmay Ghosh
Research Advisor & Principal Scientist
Ph.D. (Multimedia Systems): IIT Delhi
Saket Saurabh
Professor
Institute of Mathematical Sciences
Ph.D. (Computer Science): Institute of 
Mathematical Sciences
Venkataraman Balaji
Vice President, COL
Ph.D. (Energy Studies): University of 
Madras
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Advisors
Staff
Bimal Roy
Professor
ISI Kolkata
Rimpesh Katiyar
Technical Superintendent
Gargi Banerjee Dasgupta
Director
IBM Research India & CTO, IBM India 
and South Asia
Naveen Garg
Professor
IIT Delhi
Shivkumar Kalyanaraman
CTO
Energy & Mobility, Microsoft R&D India
Sankar Kumar Pal
National Science Chair
Distinguished Scientist and Former Director
Indian Statistical Institute
Ph.D. (Radio-Physics): Indian Statistical Institute/Calcutta University;
Ph.D. & DIC (Electrical Engineering): Imperial College of Science and Technology, London
Chiranjib Bhattacharya
Professor
IISc Bangalore
Vivek Verma
Senior Technical Assistant
Gautam Shroff
Sr. Vice President & Head of Research
Tata Consultancy Services
Sartaj Sahni
Professor
University of Florida, USA
Venu Govindaraju
Vice President
Office of Research and Economic 
Development, SUNY
Distinguished Professor
SUNY, University at Buffalo
The Department of Computer Science and Engineering has the following technical and administrative staff 
members.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No. Project Title Sponsoring
Agency Principal
Investigator Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.)
1 Development of Multimodal Search Framework For
Architectural Floor Plan SERB Chiranjoy
Chattopadhayay 24,58,500
2 Information Access from Document Images of Indian
Languages MHRD & Meity Gaurav Harit (as
a Co PI) 80,00,000
3 Indian Heritage in Digital Space of Interdisciplinary
cyber physical Systems DST Santanu
Chaudhury 12,75,55,100
4 Software as a service for OCR system for Odia
Documents Images Meity Santanu
Chaudhury 20,16,000
5 Digital Representation Generation for Efficient
Retrieval of Bangla Document Images in Digital
Libraries IIT K, MHRD Santanu
Chaudhury 76,00,000
6 Predictive Maintenance and Quality Control in
industries under Industry 4.0 SERB Sumit Kalra 54,54,065
7 Understanding Semantic Association Between Visual
and Textual Data: What lies ahead DST Yashashwi Verma 35,00,000
8 Text and Image Semantic Graphic MHRD Gaurav Harit 44,67,775
9 DETECTING SPOOFING AND DIGITAL ATTACKS ON
FACE IMAGES Meity Richa Singh 72,15,000
10 Detection and Prevention of Forged Obscene Images/
Videos in the Social Networks using Machine Learning
(A Social Media Engine for Discovering Doctoring in
Obscene Multimedia) MHA Mayank Vatsa 1,97,28,000
11 Development of Application oriented AI Systems Meity Deepak Mishra 39,82,000
12 Smart Health Solutions for Rapid Mass Diagnosis for
COVID-19 DST- RAKSHAK Sumit Kalra 5,00,000
13 Knowledge Discovery from Images containing Text
and its application to Audio-Visual Dialogue Accenture Anand Mishra 14,64,633
14 Social Distance Alert and Monitoring System Using
Smartphone,IOT and AI DST- RAKSHAK Suman Kundu 7,50,000
15 AI Driven Estimation of COVID-19 Prognosis using
Multimodal Data DST- RAKSHAK Deepak Mishra 10,00,000
Administrative Staff
Hanuman Singh
Junior Superintendent
Projects
Sponsored Projects
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No. Project Title Sponsoring
Agency Principal
Investigator Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.)
16 Non-Invasive Estimation of Care-Body Temperature,
Heart-Rate, SPO2 for Classification of subject AS
Healthy or Non-Healthy DST- RAKSHAK Romi Banerjee 10,00,000
17 AI-driven diagnosis of COVID-19 using X-ray images DST- RAKSHAK Richa Singh 7,00,000
18 Quantum Cryptanalysis SERB Somitra Kumar
Sanadhya 6,60,000
19 Energy Efficient Communication and Data Flow in
Smart City using CRN based IoT Framework DST-Indo-Uzbek Debasis Das 17,80,200
20 Lightweight Anonymous Authentication and
Communication Protocol for Internet of Vehicles DST- TWN-MOST Debasis Das 42,22,000
21 A Wellness Device for Real-time Non-contact Blood
Oxygen Saturation Measurements MSME Deepak Mishra 15,00,000
22 Algorithms for Facial Recognition System Under
Disguise DRDO Mayank Vatsa 40,52,576
23 Sentinel-Bias Detection and Mitigation in Face
Analysis Facebook Richa Singh 1,11,63,804
24 GAMING OF CULTURAL HERITAGE SITES OF ASI ASI Santanu
Chaudhury 48,50,000
25 Multimodal Query-guided Natural Scene Retrieval SERB-SRG Anand Mishra 29,64,110
26 OCR's an Application in Indian Languages MeitY, Govt. of
India Anand Mishra 1,83,90,000
27 FIST Infrastructure Support DST-FIST Richa Singh 1,20,00,000
28 Non-invasive Diagnosis of Coronary Artery Disease
using miRNA and Coronary Imaging. iHub Drishti Angshuman Paul 47,00,000
29 SensePod: An AIoT based testbed to promote Sensing
as a Service for ambient living. SEED Grant Suchetana
Chakraborty 41,90,000
30 Inventorization of the wildlife towards a sustainable
campus. CETSD Campus
Sustainability
Program, JCKIC Suchetana
Chakraborty 2,00,000
31 TrustMe: Explainable Adversarial Attack Detection and
Mitigation for Object Recognition Algorithms iHub-Drishti Richa Singh 36,00,000
32 TrustMe: Explainable Adversarial Attack Detection and
Mitigation for Object Recognition Algorithms iHub-Drishti Richa Singh 87,00,000
Total Amount 23,19,95,183
S.
No. Project Title Sponsoring Agency Principal
Investigator Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.)
1 Strengthening Handwriting Recognition
& Smart Annotation Samsung India Electronics
Pvt. Ltd. Gaurav Harit 13,82,800
2 Online Education IIT Jodhpur Anand Mishra 1,44,02,000
3 Management of TBIOM and Newsletter IEEE Biometrics Council Mayank Vatsa 45,00,000
4 Online Education IIT Jodhpur Deepak Mishra 1,44,02,000
Consultancy Projects
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No. Project Title Sponsoring Agency Principal
Investigator Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.)
5 Inference and Reasoning over Web-
Scale Multimodal Knowledge Graph Microsoft R&D Ltd,Hyderabad Anand Mishra 14,16,000
6 Design of cuffless BP monitoring
device Johari Digital Healthcare Pvt.
Ltd. Dip Sankar
Banerjee 9,20,400
7 TCS-ION Consultancy Tata Consultancy Limited Gaurav Harit 10,22,110
8 DigitID Consulting DigitID Technologies Private
Ltd. Mayank Vatsa 14,16,000
9 Online Education IIT Jodhpur Angshuman Paul 70,53,000
10 IHC (TSCHE-Python Prg., FDP) TCS Debasis Das 46,020
Total Amount 4,65,60,330
S.
No. Project Title Sponsoring Agency Principal
Investigator Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.)
1 Young Faculty Research Fellowship
(YFRF) of Visvesvaraya PhD Scheme MeitY Gaurav Harit 22,20,000
2 Swarnajayanti Fellowship: Mitigating DST Swarnajayanti
Fellowship Mayank Vatsa 63,33,337
3 Understanding Semantic Association
Between Visual and Textual Data: What
lies ahead DST Inspire Fellowship Yashaswi Verma 1,06,78,716
4. Verisk AI Faculty Fellowship Verisk Research Mayank Vatsa 10,00,000
5. Verisk AI Faculty Fellowship Verisk Research Richa Singh 10,00,000
Total Amount 1,90,12,053
Cognitive and Social
Analytics (CSA) The CSA Lab at IIT Jodhpur deals with studies on human behavior from a number
of perspectives to understand what it is to be ‘intelligent’ and how individual action-
ensembles lead to collective behavior. Currently the lab comprises of the following two
groups:
Cognitive Analytics Group (headed by Romi Banerjee) - where we draw inspiration from
the origin, evolution and development of fundamental cognitive abilities (e.g. language
acquisition, aesthetic-sense, number-sense, time-space continuum, spontaneous thought
& imagination, contemplation) across all living species, towards the design an embodied,
social (~empathetic) “thinking machine”.
SoNAA: Social Network Analysis and Application Group (headed by Suman Kundu) -
where we focus on building applications using social networks and collective behaviors,
apart from solving fundamental questions on network analysis and mining. We work with
data on relationships and relationships within data. The applications currently under
consideration are to build support systems for decision making, accountability, control
and behaviour, for governance. The group also works on algorithmic questions related to
streaming graphs and big data social networks.
Fellowship Projects
Description of Research Groups
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

IoT and Network Lab IoT and Network lab aims to support undergraduate and postgraduate courses linked
to Internet of Things(IoT), Pervasive and Mobile Computing etc. The students also get
hands-on with experiments using IoT devices Like Raspberry Pis, Sensors, Wearable
Devices, Arduino, LoRa, Jetson Nano etc which help to design and develop IoT based
Framework for real time application.
Theoretical Computer
Science (TCS) The research in Theoretical Computer Science includes understanding the complexity
of computational problems, and designing and analysing efficient algorithms. We
are largely interested in the following areas: Cryptography, Quantum Computation,
Computational Social Choice Theory, Parameterized Complexity.
Systems for Intelligence.
Networking, and
Communications (SINC)
Lab The SINC Lab at CSE Department of IIT Jodhpur is pursuing research in the general area
of computing systems with specific focus on systems for next generation of machine
learning, data analytics, and communications. The group comprising of faculty members
Dr. Debasis Das, Dr. Suchetana Chakraborty, Dr. Dip Sankar Banerjee, Dr. Sumit Kalra,
and Dr. Ravi Bhandari is broadly engaged in some cutting edge problems related to
smart cities, assisted living, low power architectures, and parallel computing.
Visual Interaction and
Understanding Lab The focus of this lab is on various problems related to visual understanding. These
include recognition (detection, categorisation and retrieval), biometric and behavioural
analysis (face, gesture and body pose), low-level vision, image and video synthesis,
vision+ language tasks (image captioning, visual question answering and cross-modal
retrieval), segmentation, shape analysis, and 3D from multi view and sensors. These
problems are addressed in a data-driven manner using various machine learning
techniques (both by adapting the existing ones as well as proposing new ones), and are
studied in the context of different domains, such as scanned documents, architectural
layout plans, natural scenes, activity videos, etc. The focus of this lab is on various
problems related to visual understanding. These include recognition (detection,
categorisation and retrieval), biometric and behavioral analysis (face, gesture and
body pose), low-level vision, image and video synthesis, vision+language tasks (image
captioning, visual question answering and cross-modal retrieval), segmentation, shape
analysis, medical image analysis, and 3D from multi view and sensors.
A major focus of the group working on medical image analysis is data-efficient machine
learning for designing decision support systems. The research works include few-shot
and zero-shot learning for radiology and histopathology image analysis. Federated
learning is another thrust area of the group. The group members are also working on
problems related to differential diagnosis of thyroid nodules, chest x-rays, and CT scans.
Alongside these, the group is focusing on designing computationally efficient decision
support systems for different clinical tasks.
Trusted AI & Biometrics The research goal of the lab is to become one of the most coveted research groups
for pursuing research in trusted AI and trusted biometrics in the country and globally.
The group has two primary themes: biometrics and forensics, and designing trusted
AI solutions. The research group has been publishing in top-tier venues in Artificial
Intelligence and Computer Vision along with domain specific publication venues of
biometrics and forensics. The lab has a global footprint with students in top ML and AI
research labs across the globe. The faculty members are also actively participating in
different national efforts towards Trustworthy AI and designing a diverse workforce for
AI in India. The research activities of the lab are supported by multiple government and
industry partners including DST, MEITY, DRDO, Meta and Verisk.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Software Innovation Lab The focus of SIL is on scalable and robust software architectural solutions. Our
solutions cater to IoT-based systems in the domain of structural health monitoring and
smart healthcare with focus on innovation and IP generation. The lab has successfully
deployed various real world systems such as telemedicine portal, hospital bed
occupancy tracker, talking gloves independently and as well as in collaboration with
various corporate and government organizations. The lab is actively working on various
sponsored projects from corporate as well as government agencies with national and
international collaborators.
Knowledge
Management and
Language Technology
Lab This lab focuses on knowledge extraction and representation, multilingual document
image understanding, vision and language tasks, and addresses practical as well as core
problems in this space. This lab currently has three faculty members and more than 10
research students including PhD, MTech and Research Assistants associated. The lab is
equipped with state-of-the-art GPU compute infrastructure.
S. No. Undergraduate Programs
1. B.Tech. Computer Science and Engineering (CSE)
2. B.Tech. AI and Data Science (AI&DS)
S. No. Postgraduate Programs
1. M.Tech. Computer Science and Engineering (CSE)
2. M.Tech. Artificial Intelligence (AI)
3. Executive M.Tech. AI (for working professionals)
S. No. Postgraduate Programs
1. M.Tech. - Ph.D. Dual Degree CSE
2. M.Tech. - Ph.D. Dual Degree AI
Academic Programmes
Research Snapshots
Title: Few-shot Visual Relationship Co-localization
Team Members: Revant Teotia, Vaibhav Mishra, Mayank Maheshwari, Anand Mishra
Brief Description: In this work, given a bag of a few images, each containing a common but latent predicate, we are 
interested in localizing visual subject-object pairs connected via the common predicate in each image. We refer to 
this novel problem as visual relationship co-localization or VRC as an abbreviation. VRC is a challenging task, even 
more so than the well-studied object co-localization task. This becomes further challenging when using just a few 
images, the model has to learn to co-localize visual subject-object pairs connected via unseen predicates. To solve 
VRC, we propose an optimization framework to select a common visual relationship in each image of the bag. The 
goal of the optimization framework is to find the optimal solution by learning visual relationship similarities across
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

images in a few-shot setting. To obtain robust visual relationship representation, we utilize a simple yet effective 
technique that learns relationship embedding as a translation vector from visual subject to visual object in a shared 
space. Further, to learn visual relationship similarity, we utilize a proven meta-learning technique commonly used for 
few-shot classification tasks. Finally, to tackle the combinatorial complexity challenge arising from an exponential 
number of feasible solutions, we use a greedy approximation inference algorithm that selects approximately the 
best solution. We extensively evaluate our proposed framework on variations of bag sizes obtained from two 
challenging public datasets, namely VrR-VG and VG-150, and achieve impressive visual co-localization performance. 
We firmly believe that this work will open up newer space in research in the broad area of video understanding and 
industry4.0.
More details (including open source implementation): https://vl2g.github.io/projects/vrc/
Venue of publication: International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) 2021
Visual illustration
Figure: Given a bag of 
four images as shown in 
the first row, can you find 
the visual subjects and 
objects connected via a 
common predicate? Our 
proposed model in this 
paper automatically does 
that. In this illustration, 
the “biting” predicate is 
present in all four images 
in the first row. Our 
proposed model localizes 
those visual subjects and 
objects in each image that 
are connected via “biting” 
as shown in the third row. 
Note that the category 
name “biting” is not 
provided in our approach. 
Here, green and yellow 
bounding boxes indicate 
the localized visual 
subject and objects 
respectively using our 
approach. [Best viewed 
in color].
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Title: Context-aware data generation and forwarding 
for edge-based microservices over shared IoT 
infrastructure
Team: Anirban Das, Sandip Chakraborty, Suchetana 
Chakraborty
Brief description: The deployment of IoT infrastructure is 
a determining factor to regulate the quality of services 
for many intelligent applications in the context of smart 
city movements. Currently, different service providers 
independently set up their own infrastructure for 
sensing and monitoring purposes in order to offer a 
variety of desired intelligent and adaptive services. 
However, this is not a cost-effective solution. The 
recent advent in 5G with its massive machine type 
communication (mMTC) vertical has contributed to 
achieve a high ascent in the global market of smart 
living industry. With more and more connected 
devices getting deployed, there has been an urgent 
need to consider the possibilities of sharing the IoT 
infrastructure among multiple service providers and 
provision for sensing-as-a-service. For such a shared 
IoT infrastructure, several microservices corresponding 
to different smart applications will be running at the 
edge of the network in order to enable real-time 
automation and decision-making. The key challenge 
arises from the method of collection and management 
of these huge amounts of multimodal data continuous
streaming from heterogeneous sensors as such an 
infrastructure is in general resource-constrained. In this 
research we ask the following questions:
(1) 
How to guarantee the quality of sensing while 
optimizing the resource-consumption footprint of 
the shared IoT infrastructure?
(2) 
How to feed a diverse set of microservices 
running at the edge with the needed sensory 
data generated from the right set of sensors while 
satisfying the spatio-temporal constraints imposed 
by the running applications.
We introduced a novel data collection framework, 
called CaDGen (Context-aware Data Generation), 
which aims to support hierarchical in-network data 
fusion through the invocation of microservices. The 
core idea is to develop a context-aware data filtration 
mechanism that can reduce the redundancy at the 
source itself, effectively minimizing the overall resource 
consumption footprint for the shared infrastructure. The 
filtration mechanism checks whether a generated piece 
of data from a sensor is relevant or not by processing 
a set of contextual parameters relevant for the running 
applications.
Venue of publication: Future Generation of Computer 
Systems, Elsevier, 2022 (IF: 7.307)
Visual Illustration
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Title: FPPR: Fast Pessimistic (dynamic) PageRank to 
Update PageRank in Evolving Directed Graphs on 
Network Changes
Team: Rohith Parjanya Pashikanti and Suman Kundu
Ranking search results of any web search is an 
important task. Google’s PageRank is one of the 
pioneer algorithms to rank web pages. There were 
only a few pages in the initial days of the internet. 
So, static page ranking algorithms were sufficient. 
However, as the WWW (World Wide Web) started 
growing, the calculation of PageRank became more 
and more complex and computationally challenging. In 
the present era, PageRank is not limited to web search 
only. With the growth of the internet, many subnetworks 
appeared and PageRank provides different values 
to those networks. These subnetworks may have 
dynamic characteristics. Dynamic networks are those 
networks where nodes and links get added or deleted 
with time. Today’s internet is full of dynamic networks. 
For example, the Twitter retweet network, where 
the addition of nodes (retweets) happen frequently, 
the following/followers network in Twitter/Instagram, 
where addition and deletion of nodes, links take 
place frequently, Twitter mentions network changes 
with each Tweet post, the citation network, where 
research papers get added over time etc. Calculating 
PageRank in such a dynamic network is an important 
and challenging research problem. The trivial way to 
find PageRank in dynamic networks is to run the static 
PageRank methods after every update in the network. 
This is time-consuming and non-sustainable for rapid 
updates in the network. In this work we developed a 
simple algorithm Fast Pessimistic dynamic PageRank 
(FPPR) to approximate the PageRank on change 
in network topology. Different topology changes 
considered are (i) adding a new node/link to the 
network and (ii) deleting a node/link from the network. 
The proposed algorithm uses the expected value of 
random surfers to re-calculate the score for changes in
the topology. Here by the expected value of random 
surfers we mean the estimated number of visits at a 
node by the random surfers considering the network 
is static at that point. For example, when a new node 
(or link) is added, the score is calculated by adding 
the estimated scores contributed by inlinks to that 
new node (or target node) and estimating the visits 
by random surfers through the link-chain it is being 
added to. The same method is used to update existing 
nodes through the outlinks of the newly added node. 
These are the links which may be used by the random 
surfer to visit (or going out from) that node if the static 
PageRank algorithm is used at that point. 
Publications:
•

Parjanya, R., Kundu, S. (2022). FPPR: Fast 
Pessimistic PageRank for Dynamic Directed 
Graphs. In: Benito, R.M., Cherifi, C., Cherifi, H., Moro, 
E., Rocha, L.M., Sales-Pardo, M. (eds) Complex 
Networks & Their Applications X. COMPLEX 
NETWORKS 2021.
•

Parjanya, R., Kundu S. (2022). FPPR: Fast Pessimistic 
(dynamic) PageRank to Update PageRank in 
Evolving Directed Graphs on Network Changes, 
(Under revision from Social Network Analysis and 
Mining) PREPRINT (Version 1) available at Research 
Square [https://doi.org/10.21203/rs.3.rs-1512145/v1]
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Anand Mishra
•
One of the outstanding reviewers at ICCV 2021
Debasis Das
•

International Mobility Research Grant-2021- IIT 
Jodhpur
•

IEEE Vehicular Technology Society (VTS) Senior 
Member Award-2021
•

IEEE Senior Member Award-2021
•

International Travel Support (ITS) Award-2022, SERB
•

BRICS Young Scientist Award-2022
Dip Sankar Banerjee
•
Excellence in Teaching Award 2021 - IIT Jodhpur
Mayank Vatsa
•
IEEE Fellow
•
IAPR Fellow
•
AAIA Fellow
•

AAAI 2021 Workshop on Meta-Learning for 
Computer Vision 2021
•

IEEE CVPR Workshop on Fair Data Efficient and 
Trusted Computer Vision 2021
Richa Singh
•
AAIA Fellow
•

PC Co-Chair, Computer Vision and Pattern 
Recognition
•

Area Chair IAPR International Conference on 
Pattern Recognition Italy January 2021
•

General Co-Chair IEEE International Conference on 
Face and Gesture Recognition India 2021
•

AAAI 2021 Workshop on Meta-Learning for 
Computer Vision 2021
•

IEEE CVPR Workshop on Fair Data Efficient and 
Trusted Computer Vision 2021
•

Finance Chair International Conference on 
Multimodal Interaction Montreal Canada 2021
•
Verisk AI Faculty Fellowship
Romi Banerjee
•

Diverse Intelligences Summer Institute Fellowship, 
2021
•
Moonshot Idea Award, 2021
Suchetana Chakraborty
•

Recipient of ‘Moonshot Idea Award 2021’ - IIT 
Jodhpur.
Sumit Kalra
•
Moonshot Award 2021
•
Google Cloud Education Award (USD $7500)
•
Moonshot Award 2022
•
Google Cloud Education Award (USD $4000)
National/International 
Committees
Debasis Das:
•

Subject Expert Student learning Assessment 
(SLA) Project 2021 AICTE (National level initiative 
to understand the Level and Gains of students 
studying in Technical Institutions of India).
•

Young Researcher Symposium program committee 
Member CODS-COMAD 2022
•

Poster Chair in the ACM 23rd International 
Conference on Distributed Computing and 
Networking (ICDCN 2022)
Mayank Vatsa:
•

Expert Committee Member for DIGIYatra NITI Aayog 
and AAI 2021
Richa Singh
•
Member, ICCV 2021 Marr Paper Prize Panel
•
Member, IAPR Diversity and Equality Committee
•
Member, IAPR Education Committee
Faculty/ Department Laurels
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Journal Editorship
Mayank Vatsa:
•
Associate Editor, Pattern Recognition
•
Area Editor Journal of Information Fusion Elsevier
•
Richa Singh:
•

Associate Editor Computer Vision and Image 
Understanding
•
Associate Editor-in-Chief Pattern Recognition
Suchetana Chakraborty:
•

Area Editor Journal Ad Hoc Networks Elsevier since 
June 2021
Conference Organizing 
Committee Member
Anand Mishra:
•

Workshop co-chair at International Conference on 
Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition (ICFHR) 2022
•
Co-organizer of DAR workshop at ICVGIP 2022
Debasis Das
•

Poster Chair at 23rd ACM International Conference 
on Distributed Computing and Networking(ICDCN) 
2022
•

Organizing Committee Member at The International 
workshop on Machine Learning and Blockchain 
for Smart Society(MLBSS-2022) in conjunction with 
The 23rd International Conference on Distributed 
Computing & Networking (ICDCN 2022)
Dip Sankar Banerjee
•

Co-Chair Student Research Symposium IEEE HiPC 
Conference 2021
Mayank Vatsa:
•

Area Chair Conference on Computer Vision and 
Pattern Recognition 2022
•

General Co-Chair CVPR Second Workshop on Fair 
Data Efficient and Trusted Computer Vision June 2021
•

General Co-Chair Meta Learning for Computer 
Vision Workshop @ AAAI 2021 Virtual February 
2021
•

Program Co-Chair IEEE International Conference 
on Face and Gesture Recognition India December 
2021
•

Program Co-Chair IEEE International Conference 
on Advanced Video and Signal based Surveillance 
USA September 2021
•

Area Chair IEEE International Conference on 
Computer Vision 2021
•

Senior Program Committee Member AAAI 
Conference on Artificial Intelligence January 2021
Pallavi Jain:
•

Senior Program Committee Member of 30th 
International Joint Conference on Artificial 
Intelligence (IJCAI-21)
•
Organizing committee ACM-Grad Cohort 2022
Somitra Sanadhya:
•

Chair 18th IFIP WG 11.9 international conference on 
digital forensics 2022.
Suchetana Chakraborty:
•
Tutorial Co-chair IEEE ANTS 2021
Richa Singh
•
Organizing committee ACM-Grad Cohort 2022
•

General Co-Chair, IEEE International Conference on 
Face and Gesture Recognition, India, 2021
•

Program Co-Chair, Conference on Computer Vision 
and Pattern Recognition 2022
•

Program Co-Chair, International Conference on 
Multimodal Interaction, Bangalore, India, 2022
•

Finance Chair, International Conference on 
Multimodal Interaction, Montreal, Canada, 2021
•
Associate Editor-in-Chief, Pattern Recognition
•

Guest Editor, Special Issue on Adversarial 
Perturbations for Biometrics and Forensics, 
Computer Vision and Image Understanding, 
Elsevier
•
VIce President Publications, IEEE Biometrics Council
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Romi Banerjee
•
Organizing committee ACM-Grad Cohort 2022
Program Committee 
Members
Anand Mishra:
•

International Conference on Computer Vision 
(ICCV) 2021
•

European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV) 
2022
•

Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern 
Recognition (CVPR) 2022
•

Association for the Advancement of Artificial 
Intelligence (AAAI) 2021/2022
•

IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine 
Intelligence (TPAMI)
•
International Journal on Computer Vision
•

ACM India Joint International Conference on Data 
Science and Management of Data 2021
Angshuman Paul:
•

Association for the Advancement of Artificial 
Intelligence 2023
•

Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern 
Recognition 2022
•

International Conference on Medical Image 
Computing and Computer Assisted Interventions 
2022
•
British Machine Vision Conference 2022
•
European Conference on Computer Vision 2022
•
IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging
•
Radiology AI
•
Medical Physics
•
Pattern Recognition Letters
Debasis Das:
•

European Conference on Machine Learning and 
Principles and Practice of Knowledge Discovery in 
Databases(ECML-PKDD) 2021
•

International Conference on Futuristic 
Trends in Networks and Computing 
Technologies(FTNCT)-2021
•

ACM International Conference on Distributed 
Computing and Networking(ICDCN)-2022
•

IEEE 95th Vehicular Technology Conference: 
VTC2022-Spring
•

The International Wireless Communications & 
Mobile Computing Conference (IWCMC 2022)
Deepak Mishra:
•

ACM India Joint International Conference on Data 
Science and Management of Data 2021
Dip Sankar Banerjee:
•

IEEE International Conference on High Performance 
Computing Data and Analytics 2021
•

IEEE International Parallel and Distributed 
Processing Symposium (IPDPS) 2022
Pallavi Jain:
•

European Conference on Multi-Agent Systems 2021 
(EUMAS-21)
•

35th AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence 
(AAAI-21)
•

36th AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence 
(AAAI-22)
•

31th International Joint Conference on Artificial 
Intelligence (IJCAI-22)
•

International Conference on Autonomous Agents 
and Multi-Agent Systems 2022 (AAMAS-22)
•
STOCS 2021
•
IPEC 2021
•
ISAAC 2021
•
FSTTCS 2021
•
Theoretical Computer Science
•
Algorithmica
•
JAAMAS
•
Theory of Computing Systems
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Romi Banerjee
•

6th Annual Meeting of the Society for the 
Neuroscience of Creativity (SfNC) - 2022
•
IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems (Journal)
•

IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning 
Systems (Journal)
•

IEEE Transactions on Cognitive and Developmental 
Systems (Journal)
•

IEEE Transactions on Emerging Topics in 
Computational Intelligence (Journal)
•
Information Systems (Journal)
•
Theoretical Computer System (Journal)
Somitra Sanadhya:
•

International Conference on Security Privacy and 
Applied Cryptographic Engineering (SPACE) 2021
•

International Conference on Cryptology in India 
(Indocrypt) 2021
•
CANS 2022
•

IEEE Conference on Local Computer Networks 
(LCN) 2021
•

International Conference on COMmunication 
Systems & NETworks (COMSNETS) 2022 and IEEE 
ANTS 2021
Sumit Kalra:
•

European Conference on Pattern Languages of 
Programs [2021]
•

3rd International Conference on Rural Technology 
Development and Delivery (RTDD) :RuTAG
Suman Kundu
•

IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data 
Engineering
•
IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics
•

IEEE Transactions on Biometrics, Behavior, and 
Identity Science
•
IEEE Transactions on Computational Social Systems
•
Information Sciences
•
Engineering and Applied Science Research
•

Journal of Experimental and Theoretical Artificial 
Intelligence
Yashaswi Verma:
•

Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge Discovery 
and Data Mining (PAKDD - 2021 2022)
•

Association for the Advancement of Artificial 
Intelligence (AAAI - 2021 2022)
•

International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV 
- 2021)
•

ACM India Joint International Conference on Data 
Science and Management of Data (CODS-COMAD 
- 2021 2022)
•

Indian Conference on Computer Vision Graphics 
and Image Processing (ICVGIP - 2021)
•

IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine 
Intelligence (Journal)
•

IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning 
Systems (Journal)
•
IEEE Transactions on Multimedia (Journal)
•
Pattern Recognition (Journal)
Student Laurels
Students Activities & Achievements
1.	

Prime Ministers Research Fellowship: Abhiram and 
Kartik Thakral
2. IBM PhD Fellowship: Surbhi Mittal
3. 
Ankur Nahar - USENIX Annual Technical 
Conference(ATC) 2021 Student Grant
4. 
Lokendra Vishwakarma, Jayant Vyas and Ankur 
Nahar - ACM SIGMATRICS 2021 Student Grant
5. 
Bharat Biradar, Dhruv Patel, Gagandeep Singh - 
Google Summer of Code, 2021
6. 
Ankur Nahar - ACM India Travel Award
7.	

Anggy Eka Pratiwi - INSNA International Travel 
Award for SUNBELT 2022 Cairns, Australia
8. Ankur Nahar- IEEE INFOCOM 2022 student grant
Anirudh Srikanth:
-	

Secured a rank of 33 in the ACM ICPC Kanpur 
- Mathura Regionals and was awarded with 
Certificate of Achievement for the same
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

-	

Scored a perfect score in Prometeo Samsung 
Coding Test and came 2nd, was awarded ₹10,000 
for the same
-	

Secured 1st rank in bankruptcy prediction kaggle 
competition hosted in Pattern recognition and 
machine learning course.
Sumit Kumar Prajapati:
-	

Secured Rank 33 in ACM ICPC Kanpur - Mathura 
Regionals - Certificate of Achievement for the same.
-	

Secured Global Rank 1 in Code Cery 2022 and 
ReCode 2022 contests held on Codechef
-	

Secured National Rank 5 (Rank 1 in IITJ) in Inter IIT 
CP contest
-	

SnackDown 2021 - Semifinalist (Among Top 500 out 
of 75K participants )
-	

Secured Global Rank 4 (India Rank 1) (5500+ 
participants) Codechef Long Challenge
-	

Secured Global Rank 18 (India Rank 7) (3000+ 
participants) in Codechef Cook-Off
-	

Shortlisted as mentee for Microsoft Cyber Security 
Engage Programme
Abhay Pratap Singh:
-	

Achieved All India Rank 1 on the final leaderboard in 
Microsoft Cybersecurity Engage’22 program, which 
was open for all institutions, branches, and also for 
2022, 2023 and 2024 batch.
Dhruv Viradiya:
-	

Achieved All India Rank 1 on the final leaderboard in 
Microsoft Cybersecurity Engage’22 program, which 
was open for all institutions, branches, and also for 
2022, 2023 and 2024 batch.
Atharva Pandey:
-	

K. Sanodariya, M. Shekhar, A. Pandey, A. Raj, A. 
Gupta, P. Suryavanshi and R. Chouhan, ”Game-
based Learning for Basic Electronics,” Proc. 
International Conference on TESOL and Education 
(ICTE), 22 January 2022, Vietnam, pp. 61-62
-	

K. Sanodariya, M. Shekhar, A. Pandey, A. Raj, A. 
Gupta, P. Suryavanshi and R. Chouhan, ”Game-
based Learning for Engineering Education: 
Supplementing Basic Electronics Instruction with 
Educational Games,” Proc. 10th International 
Conference on Information and Education 
Technology (ICIET 2022), April 9-11, 2022, Matsue, 
Japan, pp. 140-144. [Best Presentation Award on 
Web-based Learning, Game-based Learning and 
Online Discussion Analysis].
Susim Mukul Roy: Secured 8th position 
among 23 IITs in my PS in inter-IIT Tech Meet
Akshat Jain:
-	

1st Position in Blockchain Hackathon during 
Prometeo, technical fest, IITJodhpur
-	

Secured 9th position among 23 IITs in my PS in 
inter-IIT Tech Meet
Soumik Roy:
-	

Presented design credits research project 
(deepmood) in the conference of psychological well 
being 2022 organised by James Cook University, 
Singapore.
Aman Thakur:
-	

1st Position in Tech Scavenger Hunt during 
Prometeo, technical fest, IIT Jodhpur
Vikash Yadav:
-	

1st Position in Tech Scavenger Hunt during 
Prometeo, technical fest, IIT Jodhpur
Rahul Gopathi:
-	

Secured 8th position among 23 IITs in my PS in 
inter-IIT Tech Meet
Ajay Nirmal:
-	

Presented design credits research project 
(deepmood) in the conference of psychological 
wellbeing 2022 organised by James Cook 
University, Singapore.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Inventors Patent Details Month & Year Status
Sumit Kalra, Arpit Khandelwal,
Abhinav Dixit, Amit Goyal, Nithin AUTOMATIC SPEECH GENERATION PATENT
India Patent Office 201911035856 2021 Granted
Santanu Chaudhury, Shabana K
M, Jobin Wilson, Prateek Kapadia Systems and methods for management
of multi- perspective customer segments
Patent number-109366220 March, 2021 Granted
Faculty Research Area Organization Country
Anand Mishra Natural Language Processing Accenture India
Debasis Das Urban Analytics Vehant Technologies Private
Limited India
Dip Sankar Banerjee Digital Devices Johari Digital India
Mayank Vatsa Dependable AI iHub-Drishti India
Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh Machine Learning NVIDIA India
Richa Singh Dependable AI iHub-Drishti India
Richa Singh, Mayank Vatsa Machine Learning, Trustability Facebook USA
Richa Singh, Mayank Vatsa,
Santanu Chaudhury Medical Image Analysis Tele-Radiology Solutions India
Richa Singh, Mayank Vatsa,
Santanu Chaudhury Medical Image Analysis CARING, Mahajan Imaging India
Sumit Kalra IoT Uniconverge Technologies Pvt.
Ltd. India
Debasis Das Software-Defined Networking (SDN) IIT Kharagpur India
Debasis Das 5G and Federated Learning IIT (BHU) Varanasi India
Debasis Das Cognitive Radio Networks (CRNs) IITRAM Ahmedabad India
Dip Sankar Banerjee High Performance Computing IIIT Hyderabad, IIT Tirupati India
Mayank Vatsa Medical Image Analysis PGI Chandigarh India
Nakul Sharma:
-	

Secured 2nd position for the institute in Bosch’s 
High-Prep event at Inter-IIT Tech Meet 10.0 among 
the 22 participating IITs.
-	

Secured 4th position in Samsung NLP hackathon 
organized during Prometeo.
Navlika Singh:
-	

Secured 2nd position in Computer Vision 
Hackathon organized by Prithivi AI (2021)
-	

Submitted a Journal Paper in Future Generation 
Computer Systems (FGCS) (2022)
Patents
Collaborations
The faculty members of the department of Computer Science and Engineering have collaborations with several 
institutions and industries in India and abroad. Following are the details of the collaborations.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Faculty Research Area Organization Country
Richa Singh Medical Image Analysis AIIMS Rishikesh India
Richa Singh Medical Image Analysis AIIMS Jodhpur India
Sumit Kalra Software Architecture IIT Dhanbad India
Suchetana Chakraborty IIIT Guwahati India
Suchetana Chakraborty IIT Kharagpur India
Somitra Sanadhya IIT Ropar India
Pallavi Jain IMSc India
Pallavi Jain IIT Hyderabad India
Anand Mishra vision-augmented Table-to-Text is
under review at EMNLP'22 Microsoft R&D (Bing Team)
Hyderabad India
Deepak Mishra Jointly working on various medical
image analysis problems AIIMS Jodhpur India
Deepak Mishra Evaluation and development of
Machine Learning (ML) models
for the automated detection,
localisation and characterisation of
traumatic rib fractures on CT scans AIIMS Delhi India
Sumit Kalra Computers in Biology and Medicine Queensland University of
Technology Australia
Sumit Kalra In Health Monitoring of Structural
and Biological Systems XVI, Taiwan
Debasis Das Routing in VANETs and IoVs Missouri University of Science
and Technology USA
Debasis Das Vehicular Cloud Computing(VCC)
and Edge in AI University of Melbourne Australia
Debasis Das Cryptography and Security National Sun Yat-sen University Taiwan
Debasis Das Blockchain and Edge Intelligence Centre for Artificial Intelligence
Research (CAIR), University of
Agder Norway
Debasis Das Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) University of Perugia Italy
Mayank Vatsa Biometrics SUNY, University at Buffalo USA
Mayank Vatsa Biometrics TAMU, Kingsville USA
Pallavi Jain Ben-Gurion University Israel
Richa Singh Biometrics SUNY, University at Buffalo USA
Richa Singh Biometrics TAMU, Kingsville USA
Sumit Kalra Telemedicine Queensland University of
Technology Australia
Sumit Kalra Software University of Sannio Italy
Suchetana Chakraborty University MaryLand, Baltimore USA
Suchetana Chakraborty Missouri University of Science
and Technology USA
Somitra Sanadhya University of Haifa Israel
Somitra Sanadhya NTU Singapore
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Publications
The faculty members of the department have a rich array of publications in 2021-2022. The details are given below.
Dr. Angshuman Paul
1.	

Learning Few-Shot Chest X-Ray Diagnosis Using 
Images From The Published Scientific Literature, 
Angshuman Paul, Thomas C Shen, Yifan Peng, 
Zhiyong Lu, Ronald M Summers 2021 IEEE 18th 
International Symposium on Biomedical Imaging 
(ISBI), pp. 344-348
Dr. Anand Mishra
1.	

Few-shot Visual Relationship Co-localization, 
International Conference on Computer Vision 
(ICCV) 2021: Revant Teotia*, Vaibhav Mishra*, 
Mayank Maheshwari*, Anand Mishra (*: Equal 
contribution)
2. 
Look, Read and Ask: Learning to Ask Questions by 
Reading Text in Images, International Conference 
on Document Analysis and Recognition (ICDAR 
2021): S. Jahagirdar, S. Gangisetty, A. Mishra
Dr. Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay
1.	

Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay and team (Vaibhavi 
Gupta, Vinay Detani and Vivek Khokhar) design a 
framework that converts digital comics to videos.
2. 
C2VNet: A Deep Learning Framework towards 
Comic Strip to Audio-Visual Scene Synthesis, 
ICDAR, 2021: V. Gupta, V. Detani, V. Khokar, C. 
Chattopadhyay
3. 
S2D2NET: An Improved Approach for Robust Steel 
Surface Defects Diagnosis with Small Sample 
Learning, IEEE ICIP 2021: V. Nath, C. Chattopadhyay
Dr. Debasis Das
1.	

SIoVChain: Efficient and Secure Blockchain Based 
Internet of Vehicles (IoV), Kumar, Amritesh & Das, 
Debasis 2022, 23rd International Conference on 
Distributed Computing and NetworkingJanuary 
2022 (ICDCN 2022).
2. 
SmartCoin: A novel incentive mechanism for 
vehicles in intelligent transportation system 
based on consortium blockchain, Lokendra
Vishwakarma, Debasis Das, 2022 Vehicular 
Communications(VECOM)-2022.
3. 
Towards Lightweight Authentication and Batch 
Verification Scheme in IoV, IEEE Transactions on 
Dependable and Secure Computing (TDSC), 2021: 
H. Sikarwar & D. Das
4. 
SCAB - IoTA: Secure Communication and 
Authentication for IoT Applications using 
Blockchain, Journal of Parallel and Distributed 
Computing(JPDC), Elsevier, 2021: L. Vishwakarma 
and D. Das
5. 
P2-SHARP : Privacy Preserving Secure Hash based 
Authentication and Revelation Protocol in IoVs, 
Computer Networks, 2021: Harsha V. & D. Das
6. 
MComIoV: Secure and Energy-Efficient Message 
Communication Protocols for Internet of Vehicles, 
IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking (ToN), 2021: 
T. Limbasiya, D. Das & S.K. Das
7.	

DriveBFR: Driver Behavior and Fuel Efficiency-
Based Recommendation System, Jayant 
Vyas, Debasis Das, Santanu Chaudhury, 2021 
IEEE Transactions on Computational Social 
Systems(TCSS)-2021.
8. 
EIoVChain: Towards Authentication and Secure 
Communication Based Blockchain for Internet 
of Vehicles (IoV), Amritesh Kumar, Debasis Das 
2021 IEEE International Conference on Blockchain 
(Blockchain-2021)
9. 
BlockTree: a nonlinear structured, scalable and 
distributed ledger scheme for processing digital 
transactions, Lokendra Vishwakarma, Debasis Das, 
2021, Cluster Computing-2021.
10. 
EASBVN: efficient approximation scheme for 
broadcasting in vehicular networks, Debasis Das, 
Rajiv Misra, 2021 Wireless Networks(WiNet)-2021.
11. 
Toward Next Generation of Blockchain Using 
Improvized Bitcoin-NG, Debasis Das 2021, 
IEEE Transactions on Computational Social 
Systems(TCSS-2021)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

12. 
An Efficient Algorithm for Fast Handoff in Wireless 
Mobile Networks, Debasis Das. 2021 Wireless 
Personal Communication(WPC)-2021.
Dr. Deepak Mishra
1.	

BAFL: Federated Learning with Base Ablation for 
Cost Effective Communication, Maynak Kumar 
Kundalwal, Anurag Saraswat, Ishan Mishra, Deepak 
Mishra, 2022, International Conference on Pattern 
Recognition (ICPR).
2. 
Data Driven Estimation of Covid-19 Prognosis, 
Harshit Sharma, Rajendra Nagar, Deepak Mishra, 
2022 IEEE 19th International Symposium on 
Biomedical Imaging (ISBI).
3. 
MBGRLp: Multiscale Bootstrap Graph 
Representation Learning on Pointcloud (Student 
Abstract), Vandan Gorade, Azad Singh, Deepak 
Mishra, 2022 Proceedings of the AAAI Conference 
on Artificial Intelligence.
4. 
Branching Out for Better BYOL, Azad Singh, 
Deepak Mishra, 2021 NeurIPS workshop: Self-
Supervised Learning - Theory and Practice.
5. 
On-chip Pixel Reconstruction using Simple CNN for 
Sparsely Read CMOS Image Sensor. Wilfred Kisku, 
Amandeep Kaur, Deepak Mishra, 2021 IEEE 3rd 
International Conference on Artificial Intelligence 
Circuits and Systems (AICAS)
6. 
Variational inference with latent space quantization 
for adversarial resilience, Vinay Kyatham, Deepak 
Mishra, AP Prathosh, 2021 International Conference 
on Pattern Recognition (ICPR)
Dr. Dip Sankar Banerjee
1.	

Chirayu Hariyan, G Ramakrishna, Kishore Kothapalli, 
and Dip Sankar Banerjee. Shared-Memory Parallel 
Algorithms for Fully Dynamic Maintenance of 
2-Connected Components. in the 36th IEEE 
International Parallel and Distributed Processing 
Symposium (IPDPS). 2022
2. 
Shubhajit Sahu, Kishore Kothapalli, Dip Sankar 
Banerjee. Dynamic Batch Parallel Algorithms 
for Updating Pagerank. to appear in, Workshop 
on Parallel and Distributed Processing for
Computational Social Sciences (ParSocial) held in 
conjunction with 36th IEEE International Parallel and 
Distributed Processing Symposium (IPDPS). 2022.
3. 
Manan Sharma, Shivam Tiwari, Gaurav Ruhela, 
Suchetana Chakraborty, and Dip Sankar Banerjee. 
Deep Unsupervised Methods towards Behavior 
Analysis in Ubiquitous Sensor Data. at Internet of 
Things (IoT) (Elsevier) (2021).
4. 
Divy Pandey, Saurabh Singh, Vishesh Mishra, Sagar 
Satapathy, Babita Jajodia, and Dip Sankar Banerjee. 
ART-MAC: an Approximate Rounding and Truncation 
Based Mac Unit for Fault-Tolerant Applications. to 
appear at the IEEE International Symposium on 
Circuits and Systems (ISCAS) 2022, Austin, Texas, 
USA. May 2022.
5. 
Sagar Satapathy, Vishesh Mishra, Divy Pandey, 
Saurabh Singh, and Dip Sankar Banerjee. AxLEAP: 
Enabling Low-Power Approximations Through 
Unified Power Format. to appear at the IEEE 
International Symposium on Circuits and Systems 
(ISCAS) 2022, Austin, Texas, USA. May 2022.
6. 
Divy Pandey, Vishesh Mishra, Saurabh Singh, Sagar 
Satapathy, Babita Jajodia and Dip Sankar Banerjee. 
HPAM: An 8-bit High-Performance Approximate 
Multiplier Design for Error Resilient Applications. to 
appear in the proceedings of the 23rd International 
Symposium on Quality Electronic Design (ISQED), 
2022
7.	

Saurabh Singh, Vishesh Mishra, Sagar Satapathy, 
Divy Pandey, Kaustav Goswami, Dip Sankar 
Banerjee, and Babita Jajodia. EFCSA: An Efficient 
Carry Speculative Approximate Adder with 
Rectification. to appear in the proceedings of the 
23rd International Symposium on Quality Electronic 
Design (ISQED), 2022
8. 
Sourish Gunesh Dhekane; Shivam Tiwari; Manan 
Sharma; and Dip Sankar Banerjee. Enhanced 
Annotation Framework for Activity Recognition 
Through Change Point Detection. in the 
proceedings of 14th IEEE International Conference 
on COMmunication Systems; NETworkS 
(COMSNETS) (2022).
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

9. 
Deep Unsupervised Methods towards Behavior 
Analysis in Ubiquitous Sensor Data, Manan 
Sharma, Shivam Tiwari, Gaurav Ruhela, Suchetana 
Chakraborty, Dip Sankar Banerjee, IoT Journal, 
Elsevier
10. 
Towards Enhanced System Efficiency While 
Mitigating Row Hammer, ACM Transactions on 
Architecture and Code Optimization (TACO), 2021: 
K. Goswami, D. S. Banerjee, and S. Das
11. 
Semi-Supervised Subject Recognition in Low 
Modal Sensor Data, Ad Hoc Networks, 2021: S.G. 
Dhekane, S. Tiwari, K. Vajra & D.S. Banerjee
12. 
SAM: A Segmentation Based Approximate Multiplier 
for Error Tolerant Applications, IEEE International 
Symposium on Circuits and Systems (ISCAS), 2021: 
D. Pandey, S. Singh, V. Mishra, S. Satapathy & D.S. 
Banerjee
13. 
Towards Row Sensitive DRAM Refresh through 
Retention Awareness, 22nd International 
Symposium on Quality Electronic Design (ISQED), 
2021: T. Goel, D.S. Maura, K. Goswami, S. Das & D.S. 
Banerjee
14. 
ACLA: An Approximate Carry-Lookahead Adder 
with Intelligent Carry Judgement and Correction, 
22nd International Symposium on Quality Electronic 
Design (ISQED), 2021: S. Belwal, R. Bhattacharya, K. 
Goswami & D.S. Banerjee
Dr. Gaurav Harit
1.	

EKTVQA: Generalized Use of External Knowledge 
to Empower Scene Text in Text-VQA, Arka Ujjal Dey, 
Ernest Valveny, Gaurav Harit, 2022 IEEE Access
2. 
Survey of Mathematical Expression Recognition 
for Printed and Handwritten Documents, Ridhi 
Aggarwal, Shilpa Pandey, Anil Kumar Tiwari, Gaurav 
Harit. 2021,IETE Technical Review
3. 
Handwritten Annotation Spotting in Printed 
Documents Using Top-Down Visual Saliency 
Models, Shilpa Pandey, Gaurav Harit, 2021, 
Transactions on Asian and Low-Resource Language 
Information Processing
4. 
Beyond visual semantics: Exploring the role of 
scene text in image understanding, Arka Ujjal Dey,
Suman K Ghosh, Ernest Valveny, Gaurav Harit, 2021 
Pattern Recognition Letters
5. 
External Knowledge enabled Text Visual Question 
Answering, Arka Ujjal Dey, Ernest Valveny, Gaurav 
Harit 2021, arXiv preprint arXiv:2108.09717
6. 
External Knowledge Augmented Text Visual 
Question Answering, Arka Ujjal Dey, Ernest Valveny, 
Gaurav Harit, 2021, arXiv e-prints
7.	

External Knowledge Augmented Text Visual 
Question Answering, Arka Ujjal Dey, Ernest Valveny, 
Gaurav Harit, 2021
Dr. Kshitij Gajjar
1.	

Reconfiguring Shortest Paths in Graphs, Kshitij 
Gajjar, Agastya Vibhuti Jha, Manish Kumar, Abhiruk 
Lahiri, 2022 Proceedings of the AAAI Conference 
on Artificial Intelligence
2. 
Transparency Beyond VNP in the Monotone Setting, 
Prerona Chatterjee, Kshitij Gajjar, Anamay Tengse, 
2022, Journal , arXiv preprint arXiv:2202.13103
3. 
Generalized Parametric Path Problems, Prerona 
Chatterjee, Kshitij Gajjar, Jaikumar Radhakrishnan, 
Girish Varma, 2021, arXiv preprint arXiv:2102.12886
Dr. Lawqueen Kanesh
1.	

Elimination Distance to Topological-minor-free 
Graphs is FPT, Akanksha Agrawal, Lawqueen 
Kanesh, Daniel Lokshtanov, Fahad Panolan, M. S. 
Ramanujan, Saket Saurabh, 2021, arXiv preprint 
arXiv:2104.09950
2. 
Paths to trees and cacti, Akanksha Agrawal, 
Lawqueen Kanesh, Saket Saurabh, Prafullkumar 
Tale, 2021, Theoretical Computer Science, 860: 98-
116
3. 
Parameterized complexity of fair feedback vertex 
set problem, Lawqueen Kanesh, Soumen Maity, 
Komal Muluk, Saket Saurabh, 2021, Theoretical 
Computer Science, 867: 1-12
4. 
Circumventing Connectivity for Kernelization, Pallavi 
Jain, Lawqueen Kanesh, Shivesh Kumar Roy, Saket 
Saurabh, Roohani Sharma, 2021, 12th International 
Conference on Algorithms and Complexity (CIAC 
2021), 300-313
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

5. 
A Polynomial Kernel for Bipartite Permutation Vertex 
Deletion, Lawqueen Kanesh, Jayakrishnan Madathil, 
Abhishek Sahu, Saket Saurabh, Shaily Verma, 2021, 
International Symposium on Parameterized and 
Exact Computation (IPEC 2021), 130-142
6. 
Odd Cycle Transversal in Mixed Graphs, Avinandan 
Das, Lawqueen Kanesh, Jayakrishnan Madathil, 
Saket Saurabh, 2021, International Workshop on 
Graph-Theoretic Concepts in Computer Science 
(WG 2021), 130-142
7.	

A Fixed-Parameter Tractable Algorithm for 
Elimination Distance to Bounded Degree Graphs, 
Akanksha Agrawal, Lawqueen Kanesh, Fahad 
Panolan, M. S. Ramanujan, Saket Saurabh, 2022, 
SIAM J. Discrete Math, 36(2): 911-921
8. 
Further Exploiting c-Closure for FPT Algorithms 
and Kernels for Domination Problems, Lawqueen 
Kanesh, Jayakrishnan Madathil, Sanjukta Roy, 
Abhishek Sahu, Saket Saurabh, 2022, 39th 
International Symposium on Theoretical Aspects of 
Computer Science (STACS 2022), 39:1-39:20
9. 
Deleting, Eliminating and Decomposing to 
Hereditary Classes Are All FPT-Equivalent, 
Akanksha Agrawal, Lawqueen Kanesh, Daniel 
Lokshtanov, Fahad Panolan, M. S. Ramanujan, 
Saket Saurabh, Meirav Zehavi, 2022, ACM-SIAM 
Symposium on Discrete Algorithms (SODA 2022), 
1976-2004
Dr. Mayank Vatsa
1.	

Disguise Resilient Face Verification, IEEE 
Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video 
Technology, 2021: M. Singh, S. Nagpal, R. SIngh, M. 
Vatsa., pp. 3895 - 3905
2. 
Multi-Task Driven Explainable Diagnosis of 
COVID-19 using Chest X-ray Images, Pattern 
Recognition Journal, 2021: A. Malhotra, S. Mittal, 
P. Majumdar, S. Chhabra, K. Thakral, M. Vatsa, R. 
Singh, S. Chaudhury, A. Pudrod, and A. Agrawal., 
108243.
3. 
MTCD: Cataract detection via near infrared eye 
images, Computer Vision and Image Understanding 
Journal, 2021: P. Tripathi, Y. Akhtar, M. Khurshid, A. 
Lakra, R. Keshari, M. Vatsa and R. Singh., 103303
4. 
Intelligence and Adaptive Mixup Technique 
for Adversarial Robustness, IEEE International 
Conference on Image Processing, 2021: A. Agarwal, 
M. Vatsa, R. Singh, and N. Ratha, 824-828
5. 
Dr. Gaurav Goswami, Dr. Sharath Pankanti, Prof. 
Nalini Ratha Prof. Richa Singh and Prof. Mayank 
Vatsa receive approval for US patent on "Identifying 
Artificial Artifacts in Input Data to Detect Adversarial 
Attacks"
6. 
Class Equilibrium using Coulomb's Law, IJCNN, 
2021: S. Chhabra, P. Majumdar, R. Singh, M. Vatsa, 
1-8
7.	

Enhancing Fine-Grained Classification for Low 
Resolution Images, IJCNN, 2021: M. Singh, S. 
Nagpal, R. Singh, M. Vatsa, 1-8
8. 
Understanding Neural Responses to Face 
Verification of Cross-Domain Representations, 
IJCNN, 2021: M. Singh, S. Nagpal, D. Yadav, N. Kohli, 
P. Pandey, R. Singh, M. Vatsa, 1-8
9. 
Discriminative shared transform learning for sketch 
to image matching, Pattern Recognition, 2021: S. 
Nagpal, M. Singh, R. Singh & M. Vatsa, 107815
10. 
Improving face recognition performance using 
TeCS2 dictionary, Pattern Recognition Letters, 2021: 
S. Suri, A. Sankaran, M.Vatsa & R. Singh, 88-95
11. 
Facial retouching and alteration detection, Puspita 
Majumdar, Akshay Agarwal, Mayank Vatsa, 
Richa Singh, 2022, Handbook of Digital Face 
Manipulation and Detection, 2021, pp. 367-387
12. 
RGB-D Face Recognition using Reconstruction 
based Shared Representation, Soumyadeep Ghosh, 
Richa Singh, Mayank Vatsa, Afzel Noore, 2021/12/15, 
2021 16th IEEE International Conference on 
Automatic Face and Gesture Recognition (FG 2021), 
1-8
13. 
When Sketch Face Recognition Meets Mask 
Obfuscation: Database and Benchmark, Akshay 
Agarwal, Nalini Ratha, Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, 
2021, 16th IEEE International Conference on 
Automatic Face and Gesture Recognition (FG 2021), 
1-8
14. 
AECNet: Attentive EfficientNet For Crowd Counting, 
Muskan Dosi, Kartik Thakral, Surbhi Mittal, Mayank 
Vatsa, Richa Singh, 2021 16th IEEE International
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Conference on Automatic Face and Gesture 
Recognition (FG 2021), 1-8
15. 
Dual Sensor Indian Masked Face Dataset, Shiksha 
Mishra, Puspita Majumdar, Muskan Dosi, Mayank 
Vatsa, Richa Singh, 2021 16th IEEE International 
Conference on Automatic Face and Gesture 
Recognition (FG 2021), 1-8
16. 
MD-CSDNetwork: Multi-Domain Cross Stitched 
Network for Deepfake Detection ,Aayushi Agarwal, 
Akshay Agarwal, Sayan Sinha, Mayank Vatsa, Richa 
Singh, 2021 16th IEEE International Conference on 
Automatic Face and Gesture Recognition (FG 2021), 
1-8
17. 
Impact of Super-Resolution and Human 
Identification in Drone Surveillance, Akshay 
Agarwal, Nalini Ratha, Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, 
2021 IEEE International Workshop on Information 
Forensics and Security (WIFS), 1--6
18. 
TBIOM Special Issue on “Best Reviewed Papers 
From IJCB 2020—Editorial”, Nalini Ratha, Richa 
Singh, Vitomir Štruc, Ioannis A Kakadiaris, Jonathon 
P Phillips, Mayank Vatsa, 2021 IEEE Transactions on 
Biometrics, Behavior, and Identity Science, 441 - 442
19. 
Intelligent and adaptive mixup technique for 
adversarial robustness Akshay Agarwal, Mayank 
Vatsa, Richa Singh, Nalini Ratha, 2021 IEEE 
International Conference on Image Processing 
(ICIP), 824--828
20.	
Role of optimizer on network fine-tuning for 
adversarial robustness (student abstract), Akshay 
Agarwal, Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, 2021, 
Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial 
Intelligence, 15745-15746
21. 
On Learning Deep Models with Imbalanced Data 
Distribution, Puspita Majumdar, Richa Singh, Mayank 
Vatsa, 2021,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference 
on Artificial Intelligence, 15720-15721
22.	
Semi-Supervised Learning via Triplet Network 
Based Active Learning (Student Abstract), 
Divyanshu Sundriyal, Soumyadeep Ghosh, Mayank 
Vatsa, Richa Singh, 2021/5/18, Proceedings of the 
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 15903-
15904
23.	
Detection of digital manipulation in facial images 
(student abstract),Aman Mehra, Akshay Agarwal,
Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh,2021,Proceedings of the 
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 15845-
15846
24.	
NEAP-F: Network Epoch Accuracy Prediction 
Framework (Student Abstract), Arushi Chauhan, 
Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, 2021, Proceedings 
of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 
15767-15768
25.	
Improving face recognition performance using 
TeCS2 dictionary, Saksham Suri, Anush Sankaran, 
Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, 2021, Pattern 
Recognition Letters, Volume 145, Page 88-95
26.	
MagNet: Detecting digital presentation attacks on 
face recognition, Akshay Agarwal, Richa Singh, 
Mayank Vatsa, Afzel Noore, 2021, Frontiers in 
Artificial Intelligence, Volume. 4 page 643424
27. 
Attention Aware Debiasing for Unbiased Model 
Prediction,Puspita Majumdar, Richa Singh, Mayank 
Vatsa, 2021, Conference,Proceedings of the IEEE/
CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, 
4116--4124
28.	
Indian masked faces in the wild dataset, Shiksha 
Mishra, Puspita Majumdar, Richa Singh, Mayank 
Vatsa, 2021 IEEE International Conference on Image 
Processing (ICIP), 884-888
29.
	
Evolution of Newborn Face Recognition,Pavani 
Tripathi, Rohit Keshari, Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, 
2021,Book Deep Learning-Based Face Analytics, 
167-187
30.	
Unravelling the Effect of Image Distortions for 
Biased Prediction of Pre-trained Face Recognition 
Models, Puspita Majumdar, Surbhi Mittal, Richa 
Singh, Mayank Vatsa, 2021, Proceedings of the 
IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer 
Vision, pp. 3779--3788
31. 
Disguise Resilient Face Verification, IEEE 
Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video 
Technology, 2021: M. Singh, S. Nagpal, R. SIngh, M. 
Vatsa., pp. 3895 - 3905
32.	
Multi-Task Driven Explainable Diagnosis of 
COVID-19 using Chest X-ray Images, Pattern 
Recognition Journal, 2021: A. Malhotra, S. Mittal, 
P. Majumdar, S. Chhabra, K. Thakral, M. Vatsa, R. 
Singh, S. Chaudhury, A. Pudrod, and A. Agrawal., 
108243.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

33.	
MTCD: Cataract detection via near infrared eye 
images, Computer Vision and Image Understanding 
Journal, 2021: P. Tripathi, Y. Akhtar, M. Khurshid, A. 
Lakra, R. Keshari, M. Vatsa and R. Singh., 103303
34.	
Intelligence and Adaptive Mixup Technique 
for Adversarial Robustness, IEEE International 
Conference on Image Processing, 2021: A. Agarwal, 
M. Vatsa, R. Singh, and N. Ratha, 824-828
35.	
Dr. Gaurav Goswami, Dr. Sharath Pankanti, Prof. 
Nalini Ratha Prof. Richa Singh and Prof. Mayank 
Vatsa receive approval for US patent on "Identifying 
Artificial Artifacts in Input Data to Detect Adversarial 
Attacks"
36.	
Class Equilibrium using Coulomb's Law, IJCNN, 
2021: S. Chhabra, P. Majumdar, R. Singh, M. Vatsa, 
1-8
37. 
Enhancing Fine-Grained Classification for Low 
Resolution Images, IJCNN, 2021: M. Singh, S. 
Nagpal, R. Singh, M. Vatsa, 1-8
38.	
Understanding Neural Responses to Face 
Verification of Cross-Domain Representations, 
IJCNN, 2021: M. Singh, S. Nagpal, D. Yadav, N. Kohli, 
P. Pandey, R. Singh, M. Vatsa, 1-8
39.	
Discriminative shared transform learning for sketch 
to image matching, Pattern Recognition, 2021: S. 
Nagpal, M. Singh, R. Singh & M. Vatsa, 107815
40.	
Improving face recognition performance using 
TeCS2 dictionary, Pattern Recognition Letters, 2021: 
S. Suri, A. Sankaran, M.Vatsa & R. Singh, 88-95
41. 
Facial retouching and alteration detection, Puspita 
Majumdar, Akshay Agarwal, Mayank Vatsa, 
Richa Singh, 2022, Handbook of Digital Face 
Manipulation and Detection, 2021, pp. 367-387
42.	
RGB-D Face Recognition using Reconstruction 
based Shared Representation, Soumyadeep Ghosh, 
Richa Singh, Mayank Vatsa, Afzel Noore, 2021/12/15, 
2021 16th IEEE International Conference on 
Automatic Face and Gesture Recognition (FG 2021), 
1-8
43.	
When Sketch Face Recognition Meets Mask 
Obfuscation: Database and Benchmark, Akshay 
Agarwal, Nalini Ratha, Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, 
2021, 16th IEEE International Conference on
Automatic Face and Gesture Recognition (FG 2021), 
1-8
44.	
AECNet: Attentive EfficientNet For Crowd Counting, 
Muskan Dosi, Kartik Thakral, Surbhi Mittal, Mayank 
Vatsa, Richa Singh, 2021 16th IEEE International 
Conference on Automatic Face and Gesture 
Recognition (FG 2021), 1-8
45.	
Dual Sensor Indian Masked Face Dataset, Shiksha 
Mishra, Puspita Majumdar, Muskan Dosi, Mayank 
Vatsa, Richa Singh, 2021 16th IEEE International 
Conference on Automatic Face and Gesture 
Recognition (FG 2021), 1-8
46.	
MD-CSDNetwork: Multi-Domain Cross Stitched 
Network for Deepfake Detection ,Aayushi Agarwal, 
Akshay Agarwal, Sayan Sinha, Mayank Vatsa, Richa 
Singh, 2021 16th IEEE International Conference on 
Automatic Face and Gesture Recognition (FG 2021), 
1-8
47. 
Impact of Super-Resolution and Human 
Identification in Drone Surveillance, Akshay 
Agarwal, Nalini Ratha, Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, 
2021 IEEE International Workshop on Information 
Forensics and Security (WIFS), 1--6
48.	
TBIOM Special Issue on “Best Reviewed Papers 
From IJCB 2020—Editorial”, Nalini Ratha, Richa 
Singh, Vitomir Štruc, Ioannis A Kakadiaris, Jonathon 
P Phillips, Mayank Vatsa, 2021 IEEE Transactions on 
Biometrics, Behavior, and Identity Science, 441 - 442
49.	
Intelligent and adaptive mixup technique for 
adversarial robustness Akshay Agarwal, Mayank 
Vatsa, Richa Singh, Nalini Ratha, 2021 IEEE 
International Conference on Image Processing 
(ICIP), 824--828
50.	
Role of optimizer on network fine-tuning for 
adversarial robustness (student abstract), Akshay 
Agarwal, Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, 2021, 
Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial 
Intelligence, 15745-15746
51. 
On Learning Deep Models with Imbalanced Data 
Distribution, Puspita Majumdar, Richa Singh, Mayank 
Vatsa, 2021,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference 
on Artificial Intelligence, 15720-15721
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

52.	
Semi-Supervised Learning via Triplet Network 
Based Active Learning (Student Abstract), 
Divyanshu Sundriyal, Soumyadeep Ghosh, Mayank 
Vatsa, Richa Singh, 2021/5/18, Proceedings of the 
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 15903-
15904
53.	
Detection of digital manipulation in facial images 
(student abstract),Aman Mehra, Akshay Agarwal, 
Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh,2021,Proceedings of the 
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 15845-
15846
54.	
NEAP-F: Network Epoch Accuracy Prediction 
Framework (Student Abstract), Arushi Chauhan, 
Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, 2021, Proceedings 
of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 
15767-15768
55.	
Improving face recognition performance using 
TeCS2 dictionary, Saksham Suri, Anush Sankaran, 
Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, 2021, Pattern 
Recognition Letters, Volume 145, Page 88-95
56.	
MagNet: Detecting digital presentation attacks on 
face recognition, Akshay Agarwal, Richa Singh, 
Mayank Vatsa, Afzel Noore, 2021, Frontiers in 
Artificial Intelligence, Volume. 4 page 643424
57. 
Attention Aware Debiasing for Unbiased Model 
Prediction,Puspita Majumdar, Richa Singh, Mayank 
Vatsa, 2021, Conference,Proceedings of the IEEE/
CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, 
4116--4124
58.	
Indian masked faces in the wild dataset, Shiksha 
Mishra, Puspita Majumdar, Richa Singh, Mayank 
Vatsa, 2021 IEEE International Conference on Image 
Processing (ICIP), 884-888
59.	
Evolution of Newborn Face Recognition,Pavani 
Tripathi, Rohit Keshari, Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, 
2021,Book Deep Learning-Based Face Analytics, 
167-187
60.	
Unravelling the Effect of Image Distortions for 
Biased Prediction of Pre-trained Face Recognition 
Models, Puspita Majumdar, Surbhi Mittal, Richa 
Singh, Mayank Vatsa, 2021, Proceedings of the 
IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer 
Vision, pp. 3779--3788
61. 
Disguise Resilient Face Verification, IEEE 
Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video 
Technology, 2021: M. Singh, S. Nagpal, R. SIngh, M. 
Vatsa., pp. 3895 - 3905
62.	
Multi-Task Driven Explainable Diagnosis of 
COVID-19 using Chest X-ray Images, Pattern 
Recognition Journal, 2021: A. Malhotra, S. Mittal, 
P. Majumdar, S. Chhabra, K. Thakral, M. Vatsa, R. 
Singh, S. Chaudhury, A. Pudrod, and A. Agrawal., 
Volume. 122, 108243.
63.	
MTCD: Cataract detection via near infrared eye 
images, Computer Vision and Image Understanding 
Journal, 2021: P. Tripathi, Y. Akhtar, M. Khurshid, A. 
Lakra, R. Keshari, M. Vatsa and R. Singh., 103303
Dr. Pallavi Jain
1.	

On the Parameterized Approximability of 
Contraction to Classes of Chordal Graphs, TOCT: S. 
Gunda, P. Jain, D. Lokshtanov, S. Saurabh, P. Tale
2. 
Gerrymandering on graphs: Computational 
complexity and parameterized algorithms, SAGT 
2021: S. Gupta, P. Jain, F. Panolan, S. Roy, S. 
Saurabh
3. 
Even More Effort Towards Improved Bounds and 
Fixed-Parameter Tractability for Multiwinner Rules, 
IJCAI, 2021: S. Gupta, P. Jain, S. Saurabh, N. Talmon
4. 
Participatory Budgeting with Project Groups, IJCAI, 
2021: P. Jain, K. Sornat, N. Talmon, M. Zehavi
5. 
Partition aggregation for participatory budgeting, 
AAMAS, 2021: L. Bulteau, P. Jain & N. Talmon
6. 
Parameterized complexity of d-hitting set with 
quotas, SOFSEM, 2021: S. Gupta, P. Jain, A. Petety & 
Sagar Singh
7.	

More Effort Towards Multiagent Knapsack, Sushmita 
Gupta, Pallavi Jain, Sanjay Seetharaman, 2022, 
arXiv preprint arXiv:2208.02766
8. 
Scatter search for the minimum leaf spanning tree 
problem, Yogita Singh Kardam, Kamal Srivastava, 
Pallavi Jain, Rafael Martí, 2022, Computers & 
Operations Research
9. 
Circumventing Connectivity for Kernelization, Pallavi 
Jain, Lawqueen Kanesh, Shivesh Kumar Roy, Saket
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Saurabh, Roohani Sharma, 2021, International 
Conference on Algorithms and Complexity
10. Preserving Consistency for Liquid Knapsack Voting, 
Pallavi Jain, Krzysztof Sornat, Nimrod Talmon, 2021, 
Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on 
Autonomous Agents and MultiAgent Systems
11. 
Partition aggregation for participatory budgeting, 
Pallavi Jain, Nimrod Talmon, Laurent Bulteau, 2021, 
Proceedings of the 20th International Conference 
on Autonomous Agents and MultiAgent Systems
12. 
Parameterized Complexity of d-Hitting Set with 
Quotas, Sushmita Gupta, Pallavi Jain, Aditya Petety, 
Sagar Singh, 2021, International Conference on 
Current Trends in Theory and Practice of Informatics
13. 
Well-structured committees, Sushmita Gupta, 
Pallavi Jain, Saket Saurabh, 2021, Proceedings 
of the Twenty-Ninth International Conference 
on International Joint Conferences on Artificial 
Intelligence
Dr. Richa Singh
1.	

Disguise Resilient Face Verification, IEEE 
Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video 
Technology, 2021: M. Singh, S. Nagpal, R. SIngh, M. 
Vatsa., pp. 3895 - 3905
2. 
Multi-Task Driven Explainable Diagnosis of COVID-19 
using Chest X-ray Images, Pattern Recognition 
Journal, 2021: A. Malhotra, S. Mittal, P. Majumdar, S. 
Chhabra, K. Thakral, M. Vatsa, R. Singh, S. Chaudhury, 
A. Pudrod, and A. Agrawal., 108243.
3. 
MTCD: Cataract detection via near infrared eye 
images, Computer Vision and Image Understanding 
Journal, 2021: P. Tripathi, Y. Akhtar, M. Khurshid, A. 
Lakra, R. Keshari, M. Vatsa and R. Singh., 103303
4. 
Intelligence and Adaptive Mixup Technique 
for Adversarial Robustness, IEEE International 
Conference on Image Processing, 2021: A. Agarwal, 
M. Vatsa, R. Singh, and N. Ratha, 824-828
5. 
Dr. Gaurav Goswami, Dr. Sharath Pankanti, Prof. 
Nalini Ratha Prof. Richa Singh and Prof. Mayank 
Vatsa receive approval for US patent on "Identifying 
Artificial Artifacts in Input Data to Detect Adversarial 
Attacks"
6. 
Class Equilibrium using Coulomb's Law, IJCNN, 
2021: S. Chhabra, P. Majumdar, R. Singh, M. Vatsa, 
1-8
7.	

Enhancing Fine-Grained Classification for Low 
Resolution Images, IJCNN, 2021: M. Singh, S. 
Nagpal, R. Singh, M. Vatsa, 1-8
8. 
Understanding Neural Responses to Face 
Verification of Cross-Domain Representations, 
IJCNN, 2021: M. Singh, S. Nagpal, D. Yadav, N. Kohli, 
P. Pandey, R. Singh, M. Vatsa, 1-8
9. 
Discriminative shared transform learning for sketch 
to image matching, Pattern Recognition, 2021: S. 
Nagpal, M. Singh, R. Singh & M. Vatsa, 107815
10.
 
Improving face recognition performance using 
TeCS2 dictionary, Pattern Recognition Letters, 2021: 
S. Suri, A. Sankaran, M.Vatsa & R. Singh, 88-95
11. 
Facial retouching and alteration detection, Puspita 
Majumdar, Akshay Agarwal, Mayank Vatsa, 
Richa Singh, 2022, Handbook of Digital Face 
Manipulation and Detection, 2021, pp. 367-387
12. 
RGB-D Face Recognition using Reconstruction based 
Shared Representation, Soumyadeep Ghosh, Richa 
Singh, Mayank Vatsa, Afzel Noore, 2021/12/15, 2021 
16th IEEE International Conference on Automatic 
Face and Gesture Recognition (FG 2021), 1-8
13. 
When Sketch Face Recognition Meets Mask 
Obfuscation: Database and Benchmark, Akshay 
Agarwal, Nalini Ratha, Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, 
2021, 16th IEEE International Conference on 
Automatic Face and Gesture Recognition (FG 2021), 
1-8
14. 
AECNet: Attentive EfficientNet For Crowd Counting, 
Muskan Dosi, Kartik Thakral, Surbhi Mittal, Mayank 
Vatsa, Richa Singh, 2021 16th IEEE International 
Conference on Automatic Face and Gesture 
Recognition (FG 2021), 1-8
15. 
Dual Sensor Indian Masked Face Dataset, Shiksha 
Mishra, Puspita Majumdar, Muskan Dosi, Mayank 
Vatsa, Richa Singh, 2021 16th IEEE International 
Conference on Automatic Face and Gesture 
Recognition (FG 2021), 1-8
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

16. 
MD-CSDNetwork: Multi-Domain Cross Stitched 
Network for Deepfake Detection ,Aayushi Agarwal, 
Akshay Agarwal, Sayan Sinha, Mayank Vatsa, Richa 
Singh, 2021 16th IEEE International Conference on 
Automatic Face and Gesture Recognition (FG 2021), 
1-8
17. 
Impact of Super-Resolution and Human 
Identification in Drone Surveillance, Akshay 
Agarwal, Nalini Ratha, Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, 
2021 IEEE International Workshop on Information 
Forensics and Security (WIFS), 1--6
18. 
TBIOM Special Issue on “Best Reviewed Papers 
From IJCB 2020—Editorial”, Nalini Ratha, Richa 
Singh, Vitomir Štruc, Ioannis A Kakadiaris, Jonathon 
P Phillips, Mayank Vatsa, 2021 IEEE Transactions on 
Biometrics, Behavior, and Identity Science, 441 - 442
19. 
Intelligent and adaptive mixup technique for 
adversarial robustness Akshay Agarwal, Mayank 
Vatsa, Richa Singh, Nalini Ratha, 2021 IEEE 
International Conference on Image Processing 
(ICIP), 824--828
20.	
Role of optimizer on network fine-tuning for 
adversarial robustness (student abstract), Akshay 
Agarwal, Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, 2021, 
Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial 
Intelligence, 15745-15746
21. 
On Learning Deep Models with Imbalanced Data 
Distribution, Puspita Majumdar, Richa Singh, Mayank 
Vatsa, 2021,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference 
on Artificial Intelligence, 15720-15721
22.	
Semi-Supervised Learning via Triplet Network 
Based Active Learning (Student Abstract), 
Divyanshu Sundriyal, Soumyadeep Ghosh, Mayank 
Vatsa, Richa Singh, 2021/5/18, Proceedings of the 
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 15903-
15904
23.	
Detection of digital manipulation in facial images 
(student abstract),Aman Mehra, Akshay Agarwal, 
Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh,2021,Proceedings of the 
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 15845-
15846
24.	
NEAP-F: Network Epoch Accuracy Prediction 
Framework (Student Abstract), Arushi Chauhan, 
Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, 2021, Proceedings
of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 
15767-15768
25.	
Improving face recognition performance using 
TeCS2 dictionary, Saksham Suri, Anush Sankaran, 
Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, 2021, Pattern 
Recognition Letters, Volume 145, Page 88-95
26.	
MagNet: Detecting digital presentation attacks on 
face recognition, Akshay Agarwal, Richa Singh, 
Mayank Vatsa, Afzel Noore, 2021, Frontiers in 
Artificial Intelligence, Volume. 4 page 643424
27. 
Attention Aware Debiasing for Unbiased Model 
Prediction,Puspita Majumdar, Richa Singh, Mayank 
Vatsa, 2021, Conference,Proceedings of the IEEE/
CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, 
4116--4124
28.	
Indian masked faces in the wild dataset, Shiksha 
Mishra, Puspita Majumdar, Richa Singh, Mayank 
Vatsa, 2021 IEEE International Conference on Image 
Processing (ICIP), 884-888
29.	
Evolution of Newborn Face Recognition,Pavani 
Tripathi, Rohit Keshari, Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, 
2021,Book Deep Learning-Based Face Analytics, 
167-187
30.	
Unravelling the Effect of Image Distortions for 
Biased Prediction of Pre-trained Face Recognition 
Models, Puspita Majumdar, Surbhi Mittal, Richa 
Singh, Mayank Vatsa, 2021, Proceedings of the 
IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer 
Vision, pp. 3779--3788
31. 
Disguise Resilient Face Verification, IEEE 
Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video 
Technology, 2021: M. Singh, S. Nagpal, R. SIngh, M. 
Vatsa., pp. 3895 - 3905
32.	
Multi-Task Driven Explainable Diagnosis of 
COVID-19 using Chest X-ray Images, Pattern 
Recognition Journal, 2021: A. Malhotra, S. Mittal, 
P. Majumdar, S. Chhabra, K. Thakral, M. Vatsa, R. 
Singh, S. Chaudhury, A. Pudrod, and A. Agrawal., 
108243.
33.	
MTCD: Cataract detection via near infrared eye 
images, Computer Vision and Image Understanding 
Journal, 2021: P. Tripathi, Y. Akhtar, M. Khurshid, A. 
Lakra, R. Keshari, M. Vatsa and R. Singh., 103303
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

34.	
Intelligence and Adaptive Mixup Technique 
for Adversarial Robustness, IEEE International 
Conference on Image Processing, 2021: A. Agarwal, 
M. Vatsa, R. Singh, and N. Ratha, 824-828
35.	
Dr. Gaurav Goswami, Dr. Sharath Pankanti, Prof. 
Nalini Ratha Prof. Richa Singh and Prof. Mayank 
Vatsa receive approval for US patent on "Identifying 
Artificial Artifacts in Input Data to Detect Adversarial 
Attacks"
36.	
Class Equilibrium using Coulomb's Law, IJCNN, 
2021: S. Chhabra, P. Majumdar, R. Singh, M. Vatsa, 
1-8
37. 
Enhancing Fine-Grained Classification for Low 
Resolution Images, IJCNN, 2021: M. Singh, S. 
Nagpal, R. Singh, M. Vatsa, 1-8
38.	
Understanding Neural Responses to Face 
Verification of Cross-Domain Representations, 
IJCNN, 2021: M. Singh, S. Nagpal, D. Yadav, N. Kohli, 
P. Pandey, R. Singh, M. Vatsa, 1-8
39.	
Discriminative shared transform learning for sketch 
to image matching, Pattern Recognition, 2021: S. 
Nagpal, M. Singh, R. Singh & M. Vatsa, 107815
40.	
Improving face recognition performance using 
TeCS2 dictionary, Pattern Recognition Letters, 2021: 
S. Suri, A. Sankaran, M.Vatsa & R. Singh, 88-95
41. 
Facial retouching and alteration detection, Puspita 
Majumdar, Akshay Agarwal, Mayank Vatsa, 
Richa Singh, 2022, Handbook of Digital Face 
Manipulation and Detection, 2021, pp. 367-387
42.	
RGB-D Face Recognition using Reconstruction 
based Shared Representation, Soumyadeep Ghosh, 
Richa Singh, Mayank Vatsa, Afzel Noore, 2021/12/15, 
2021 16th IEEE International Conference on 
Automatic Face and Gesture Recognition (FG 2021), 
1-8
43.	
When Sketch Face Recognition Meets Mask 
Obfuscation: Database and Benchmark, Akshay 
Agarwal, Nalini Ratha, Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, 
2021, 16th IEEE International Conference on 
Automatic Face and Gesture Recognition (FG 2021), 
1-8
44.	
AECNet: Attentive EfficientNet For Crowd Counting, 
Muskan Dosi, Kartik Thakral, Surbhi Mittal, Mayank
Vatsa, Richa Singh, 2021 16th IEEE International 
Conference on Automatic Face and Gesture 
Recognition (FG 2021), 1-8
45.	
Dual Sensor Indian Masked Face Dataset, Shiksha 
Mishra, Puspita Majumdar, Muskan Dosi, Mayank 
Vatsa, Richa Singh, 2021 16th IEEE International 
Conference on Automatic Face and Gesture 
Recognition (FG 2021), 1-8
46.	
MD-CSDNetwork: Multi-Domain Cross Stitched 
Network for Deepfake Detection ,Aayushi Agarwal, 
Akshay Agarwal, Sayan Sinha, Mayank Vatsa, Richa 
Singh, 2021 16th IEEE International Conference on 
Automatic Face and Gesture Recognition (FG 2021), 
1-8
47. 
Impact of Super-Resolution and Human 
Identification in Drone Surveillance, Akshay 
Agarwal, Nalini Ratha, Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, 
2021 IEEE International Workshop on Information 
Forensics and Security (WIFS), 1--6
48.	
TBIOM Special Issue on “Best Reviewed Papers 
From IJCB 2020—Editorial”, Nalini Ratha, Richa 
Singh, Vitomir Štruc, Ioannis A Kakadiaris, Jonathon 
P Phillips, Mayank Vatsa, 2021 IEEE Transactions on 
Biometrics, Behavior, and Identity Science, 441 - 442
49.	
Intelligent and adaptive mixup technique for 
adversarial robustness Akshay Agarwal, Mayank 
Vatsa, Richa Singh, Nalini Ratha, 2021 IEEE 
International Conference on Image Processing 
(ICIP), 824--828
50.	
Role of optimizer on network fine-tuning for 
adversarial robustness (student abstract), Akshay 
Agarwal, Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, 2021, 
Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial 
Intelligence, 15745-15746
51. 
On Learning Deep Models with Imbalanced Data 
Distribution, Puspita Majumdar, Richa Singh, Mayank 
Vatsa, 2021,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference 
on Artificial Intelligence, 15720-15721
52.	
Semi-Supervised Learning via Triplet Network 
Based Active Learning (Student Abstract), Divyanshu 
Sundriyal, Soumyadeep Ghosh, Mayank Vatsa, 
Richa Singh, 2021/5/18, Proceedings of the AAAI 
Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 15903-15904
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

53.	
Detection of digital manipulation in facial images 
(student abstract),Aman Mehra, Akshay Agarwal, 
Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh,2021,Proceedings of the 
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 15845-
15846
54.	
NEAP-F: Network Epoch Accuracy Prediction 
Framework (Student Abstract), Arushi Chauhan, 
Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, 2021, Proceedings 
of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 
15767-15768
55.	
Improving face recognition performance using 
TeCS2 dictionary, Saksham Suri, Anush Sankaran, 
Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, 2021, Pattern 
Recognition Letters, Volume 145, Page 88-95
56.	
MagNet: Detecting digital presentation attacks on 
face recognition, Akshay Agarwal, Richa Singh, 
Mayank Vatsa, Afzel Noore, 2021, Frontiers in 
Artificial Intelligence, Volume. 4 page 643424
57. 
Attention Aware Debiasing for Unbiased Model 
Prediction,Puspita Majumdar, Richa Singh, Mayank 
Vatsa, 2021, Conference,Proceedings of the IEEE/
CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, 
4116--4124
58.	
Indian masked faces in the wild dataset, Shiksha 
Mishra, Puspita Majumdar, Richa Singh, Mayank 
Vatsa, 2021 IEEE International Conference on Image 
Processing (ICIP), 884-888
59.	
Evolution of Newborn Face Recognition,Pavani 
Tripathi, Rohit Keshari, Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, 
2021,Book Deep Learning-Based Face Analytics, 
167-187
60.	
Unravelling the Effect of Image Distortions for 
Biased Prediction of Pre-trained Face Recognition 
Models, Puspita Majumdar, Surbhi Mittal, Richa 
Singh, Mayank Vatsa, 2021, Proceedings of the 
IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer 
Vision, pp. 3779--3788
61. 
Disguise Resilient Face Verification, IEEE 
Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video 
Technology, 2021: M. Singh, S. Nagpal, R. SIngh, M. 
Vatsa., pp. 3895 - 3905
62.	
Multi-Task Driven Explainable Diagnosis of 
COVID-19 using Chest X-ray Images, Pattern
Recognition Journal, 2021: A. Malhotra, S. Mittal, 
P. Majumdar, S. Chhabra, K. Thakral, M. Vatsa, R. 
Singh, S. Chaudhury, A. Pudrod, and A. Agrawal., 
Volume. 122, 108243.
63.	
MTCD: Cataract detection via near infrared eye 
images, Computer Vision and Image Understanding 
Journal, 2021: P. Tripathi, Y. Akhtar, M. Khurshid, A. 
Lakra, R. Keshari, M. Vatsa and R. Singh., 103303
Dr. Romi Banerjee
1.	

Curiosity-driven Intuitive Physics Learning, ICRA 
(Learning to Learn: Robotics Workshop), 2021: T. 
Gaikwad, R. Banerjee
2. 
A Decade of the Z-Numbers, IEEE Transactions on 
Fuzzy Systems, 2021: R.Banerjee, S.K. Pal, J.K. Pal
3. 
Associativity between COVID-19 Pandemic and 
Serious Mental Illness: Rapid Systematic Review 
within Salutogenesis Model for Public Health 
Management, Current Psychiatry Research and 
Reviews, 2022: S. Kaman, A. Sharma, R. Banerjee
Dr. Santanu Chaudhury
1.	

Multi-Task Driven Explainable Diagnosis of 
COVID-19 using Chest X-ray Images, Pattern 
Recognition Journal, 2022: A. Malhotra, S. Mittal, 
P. Majumdar, S. Chhabra, K. Thakral, M. Vatsa, R. 
Singh, S. Chaudhury, A. Pudrod, and A. Agrawal.
2. 
Multiresolution visual enhancement of hazy 
underwater scene, Deepak Kumar Rout, Badri 
Narayan Subudhi, T Veerakumar, Santanu 
Chaudhury, John Soraghan, 2022 Multimedia Tools 
and Applications
3. 
Vision based identification and force control of 
industrial robots, Abdullah Aamir Hayat, Shraddha 
Chaudhary, Riby Abraham Boby, Arun Dayal Udai, 
Sumantra Dutta Roy, Subir Kumar Saha, Santanu 
Chaudhury, 2022
4. 
Pneumonia Classification Using Few-Shot Learning 
with Visual Explanations, Shipra Madan, Anirudra 
Diwakar, Santanu Chaudhury, Tapan Gandhi, 
2021,International Conference on Intelligent Human 
Computer Interaction
5. 
Smart City Umbrella Ontology: Context-Driven 
Framework For Traffic Planning, Annu Mor, Mukesh
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Kumar, Santanu Chaudhury, 2021, Book Forum for 
Information Retrieval Evaluation
6. 
Unsupervised Learning of Affinity for Image 
Segmentation: An Inpainting based Approach, 
Swati Bhugra, Vinay Kaushik, Isaac Castro Mateos, 
Santanu Chaudhury, Brejesh Lall, 2021 36th 
International Conference on Image and Vision 
Computing New Zealand (IVCNZ)
7.	

Conditional Deep 3D-Convolutional Generative 
Adversarial Nets for RGB-D Generation, Richa 
Sharma, Manoj Sharma, Ankit Shukla, Santanu 
Chaudhury, 2021 Mathematical Problems in 
Engineering
8. 
Handling non-stationarity in E-nose design: a 
review, Vishakha Pareek, Santanu Chaudhury, 
Sanjay Singh, 2021 Source Sensor Review Emerald 
Publishing Limited
9. 
Deep learning-based gas identification and 
quantification with auto-tuning of hyper-parameters, 
Vishakha Pareek, Santanu Chaudhury, 2021/11 Soft 
Computing
10. 
DriveBFR: Driver Behavior and Fuel Efficiency-
Based Recommendation System, Jayant Vyas, 
Debasis Das, Santanu Chaudhury, 2021 IEEE 
Transactions on Computational Social Systems
11. 
Gas Discrimination & Quantification using Sensor 
Array with 3D Convolution Regression Dual 
Network, Vishakha Pareek, Santanu Chaudhury, 
Sanjay Singh, 2021 11th IEEE International 
Conference on Intelligent Data Acquisition and 
Advanced Computing Systems: Technology and 
Applications (IDAACS)
12. 
Online Pattern Recognition of Time-series Gas 
Sensor Data with Adaptive 2D-CNN Ensemble, 
Vishakha Pareek, Santanu Chaudhury, Sanjay 
Singh, 2021 11th IEEE International Conference 
on Intelligent Data Acquisition and Advanced 
Computing Systems: Technology and Applications 
(IDAACS)
13. 
Lighter and Faster Cross-Concatenated Multi-
Scale Residual Block Based Network for Visual 
Saliency Prediction, Sai Phani Kumar Malladi, 
Jayanta Mukhopadhyay, Chaker Larabi, Santanu 
Chaudhury,2021 IEEE International Conference on 
Image Processing (ICIP)
14. 
Deriving Explanation of Deep Visual Saliency 
Models, Sai Phani Kumar Malladi, Jayanta 
Mukhopadhyay, Chaker Larabi, Santanu Chaudhury, 
2021Journal, arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.03575
15. 
DFTNet: Deep fish tracker with attention mechanism 
in unconstrained marine environments, Shilpi Gupta, 
Prerana Mukherjee, Santanu Chaudhury, Brejesh 
Lall, Hemanth Sanisetty, 2021 IEEE Transactions on 
Instrumentation and Measurement
16. 
Smart Gas Sensing using Single MOS Gas Sensor 
with Adaptive Gradient Boosting, Vishakha Pareek, 
Rahul Prajesh, Santanu Chaudhury, Sanjay Singh, 
2021 Joint 10th International Conference on 
Informatics, Electronics & Vision (ICIEV) and 2021 
5th International Conference on Imaging, Vision & 
Pattern Recognition (icIVPR)
17. 
Hybrid 3DCNN-RBM Network for Gas Mixture 
Concentration Estimation With Sensor Array, 
Vishakha Pareek, Santanu Chaudhury, Sanjay Singh 
2021 IEEE Sensors
18. 
Understanding Character Recognition using 
Visual Explanations Derived from the Human 
Visual System and Deep Networks, Chetan 
Ralekar, Shubham Choudhary, Tapan Kumar 
Gandhi, Santanu Chaudhury, 2021 arXiv preprint 
arXiv:2108.04558
19. 
Automated detection of COVID-19 on a small 
dataset of chest CT images using metric learning, 
Shipra Madan, Santanu Chaudhury, Tapan Kumar 
Gandhi, 2021 Conference, International Joint 
Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN)
20.	
Video Classification using SlowFast Network via 
Fuzzy rule, Aruna Tiwari, Santanu Chaudhury, Sanjay 
Singh, Sumeet Saurav, 2021 IEEE International 
Conference on Fuzzy Systems (FUZZ-IEEE)
21. 
Using Scene Graphs for Detecting Visual 
Relationships, Anurag Tripathi, Siddharth Srivastava, 
Brejesh Lall, Santanu Chaudhury, 2021 Conference, 
25th International Conference on Pattern 
Recognition (ICPR)
22.	
Collaborative Human Machine Attention Module 
for Character Recognition, Chetan Ralekar, 
Tapan Kumar Gandhi, Santanu Chaudhury, 2021 
Conference 25th International Conference on 
Pattern Recognition (ICPR)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

23.	
A Hierarchical Framework for Leaf Instance 
Segmentation: Application to Plant Phenotyping, 
Swati Bhugra, Kanish Garg, Santanu Chaudhury, 
Brejesh Lall, 2021
24.	
Conference 25th International Conference on 
Pattern Recognition (ICPR)
25.	
A Variational Training Perspective to GANs for 
Hyperspectral Image Generation, Harsh Sinha, 
Subham Kumar, Santanu Chaudhury 2021 Soft 
Computing for Problem Solving
Dr. Somitra Kumar Sanadhya
1.
	

Design and Analysis of FPGA-Based PUFs with 
Enhanced Performance for Hardware-Oriented 
Security, ACM Journal on Emerging Technologies in 
Computing Systems (JETC), 2022, ISSN No. 1539-
9087: N. Nalla Anandakumar, Mohammad S. Hashmi 
and Somitra Kumar Sanadhya.
2. 
Field Programmable Gate Array based Elliptic Curve 
Menezes-Qu-Vanstone key agreement protocol 
realization using Physical Unclonable Function 
and true random number generator primitives, IET 
Circuits, Devices & Systems, 2022, Pages 1-17, ISSN 
No. 751-8598: N. Nalla Anandakumar, Mohammad S. 
Hashmi and Somitra Kumar Sanadhya.
3. 
Quantum free-start collision attacks on double 
block length hashing with round-reduced AES-256, 
IACR Transactions on Symmetric Cryptology, 2021: 
A.K. Chauhan, A. Kumar & S.K. Sanadhya
4. 
On the Structure of Format Preserving Sets in the 
Diffusion Layer of Block Ciphers, Tapas Chatterjee, 
Ayantika Laha, Somitra Kumar Sanadhya, 2022 IEEE 
Transactions on Information Theory
5. 
FbHash-E: A time and memory efficient version of 
FbHash similarity hashing algorithm, Monika Singh, 
Anviksha Khunteta, Mohona Ghosh, Donghoon 
Chang, Somitra Kumar Sanadhya, 2022, Forensic 
Science International: Digital Investigation
6. 
Design and Analysis of FPGA Based PUFs with 
Enhanced Performance for Hardware-Oriented 
Cryptography, Nalla Anandakumar, Mohammad 
Hashmi, Somitra Sanadhya, 2022, ACM Journal 
on Emerging Technologies in Computing Systems, 
Association for Computing Machinery (ACM)
7.	

Field Programmable Gate Array based elliptic 
curve Menezes-Qu-Vanstone key agreement 
protocol realization using Physical Unclonable 
Function and true random number generator, N 
Nalla Anandakumar, Mohammad S Hashmi, Somitra 
Kumar Sanadhya 2022, IET Circuits, Devices & 
Systems
8. 
Quantum Security of FOX Construction based on 
Lai-Massey Scheme, Amit Kumar Chauhan, Somitra 
Sanadhya, 2022 Cryptology ePrint Archive
9. 
Design and analysis of approximate matching 
algorithms, Monika Singh, Donghoon Chang, 
Somitra Kumar Sanadhya, 2022 IIIT-Delhi
10. 
Design and Analysis of FPGA Based PUFs with 
Enhanced Performance for Hardware-Oriented 
Security, N Nalla Anandakumar, Mohammad S 
Hashmi, Somitra Kumar Sanadhya 2022 ACM 
Journal on Emerging Technologies in Computing 
Systems (JETC)
11. 
Release of unverified plaintext: tight unified model 
and application to ANYDAE, M Nandi, F Sibleyras, B 
Mennink, D Chang, S Sanadhya, A Dutta, N Datta
12. 
Cryptanalytic time–memory trade-off for password 
hashing schemes, A Jati, S Mishra, SK Sanadhya, D 
Chang 2021
13. 
Threshold implementations of GIFT: A trade-off 
analysis, Naina Gupta, Arpan Jati, SK Sanadhya, A 
Chattopadhyay, Donghoon Chang, 2021
14. 
FPGA-Based true random number generation 
using programmable delays in Oscillator-Rings, SK 
Sanadhya, NN Anandakumar, MS Hashmi, 2021
15. 
A Configurable crystals-kyber hardware 
implementation with side-channel protection, Arpan 
Jati, Naina Gupta, Anupam Chattopadhyay, Somitra 
Kumar Sanadhya, 2021, Cryptology ePrint Archive
Dr. Suchetana Chakraborty
1.	

Anirban Das, Kartik Narayan and Suchetana 
Chakraborty, "Leveraging ambient sensing for the 
estimation of curiosity-driven human crowd " to 
appear in the proceedings of IEEE SysCon 2022
2. 
Manan Sharma, Shivam Tiwari, Gaurav Ruhela, 
Suchetana Chakraborty, and Dip Sankar Banerjee. 
Deep Unsupervised Methods towards Behavior
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Analysis in Ubiquitous Sensor Data. at Internet of 
Things (IoT) (Elsevier) (2021).
3. 
Experience: Developing a testbed for ambient 
sensing and in-network data processing, 
COMSNETS 2022, Anirban Das and Suchetana 
Chakraborty ( Regular paper)
4. 
Enabling video conferencing in low bandwidth, 
CCNC 2022, Muzzafer Ali and Suchetana 
Chakraborty ( Poster paper)
5. 
Multi-Access Edge Computing for Urban 
Informatics, Suchetana Chakraborty and Radhika 
Sukapuram. ICDCN 2022 ( Tutorial paper)
6. 
Deep Unsupervised Methods towards Behavior 
Analysis in Ubiquitous Sensor Data, Manan 
Sharma, Shivam Tiwari, Gaurav Ruhela, Suchetana 
Chakraborty, Dip Sankar Banerjee, IoT Journal, 
Elsevier
7.	

A survey on task offloading in Multi-access Edge 
Computing, Journal of Systems Architecture, 
Elsevier, 2021: A. Islam, A. Debnath, Manojit Ghosh, 
S. Chakraborty
Dr. Suman Kundu
1.	

FPPR: Fast Pessimistic PageRank for Dynamic 
Directed Graphs, In proceedings of 10th 
International Conference on Complex Networks 
and their Applications, Madrid, Spain (Hybrid), 2021: 
Pashikanti Rohith Parjanya and Suman Kundu
2.
 
A Serverless Approach to Federated Learning 
Infrastructure Oriented for IoT/Edge Data Sources 
(Student Abstract), Anshul Ahuja, Geetesh Gupta, 
Suman Kundu, 2021, Proceedings of the AAAI 
Conference on Artificial Intelligence
Dr. Sumit Kalra
1.	

The effect of machine learning explanations on user 
trust for automated diagnosis of COVID-19,Kanika 
Goel, Renuka Sindhgatta, Sumit Kalra, Rohan Goel, 
Preeti Mutreja, 2022, Computers in Biology and 
Medicine
2. 
Automated and lightweight feature detection and 
matching towards real-time SHM of large structures, 
Sneha Prasad, David Kumar, Sumit Kalra, Chih-Hung 
Chiang, Arpit Khandelwal, 2022, Health Monitoring 
of Structural and Biological Systems XVI
3. 
PalmHashNet: Palmprint Hashing Network for 
Indexing Large Databases to Boost Identification, 
Geetika Arora, Sumit Kalra, Ashutosh Bhatia, 
Kamlesh Tiwari, 2021, IEEE Access
4. 
Training Software Engineers for Qu alitative 
Evaluation of Software Architecture, Ritu Kapur, 
Sumit Kalra, Kamlesh Tiwari, Geetika Arora, 2021, 
arXiv preprint arXiv:2105.09595
5. 
Ajay Nirmal, Sumit Kalra, Ankita Sharma,Soumik, 
“DeepMood: Identification of mood state with 
keystrokes on smartphone”, PSYCHOLOGICAL 
SCIENCE AND WELL-BEING CONFERENCE 2022
6. 
Krishna Singh Bhandari, Ankita Sharma, Sumit Kalra, 
Ajay Nirmal, Soumik, Rajat Soni, Bhavneet Kaur, 
“Feasibility and usability of Experience sampling 
method and typing characteristics for smartphone-
based emotion detection”, PSYCHOLOGICAL 
SCIENCE AND WELL-BEING CONFERENCE 2022
7.	

Saxena, Hars; Kalra, Sumit; Telemedicine System 
Deployment in Rural India - A case study, 3rd 
International Conference on Rural Technology 
Development and Delivery (RTDD) :RuTAG 2022
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Network Lab Network lab aims to support undergraduate and postgraduate courses linked to
Computer Networks, Wireless Networks, and Network Protocol etc. The students also
get hands-on with experiments using Network Hardware (i.e., IoT devices, Raspberry Pi,
Routers, Switches, Firewalls, PCs, Servers, Laptops, Sensors, and Arduino) which help to
monitor network usage, bandwidth, throughput, delay and security attacks.
Hardware Lab Hardware lab aims to support undergraduate and postgraduate courses linked to
computer organization and facilitate research activities on edge analytics platforms,
computing architectures, embedded systems, autonomous systems, and CAD for VLSI.
Samsung AR-VR
Innovation Laboratory The Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality (AR/VR) Innovation lab at IIT Jodhpur was
established on November 20, 2020. The lab is a joint initiative between IIT Jodhpur and
Samsung R&D Institute India-Delhi (SRI-D).
The lab, located at the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, was
virtually inaugurated by Shri Ajay Prakash Sawhney, Secretary, Ministry of Electronics &
Information Technology, Government of India, in the esteemed presence of Ms. Mugdha
Sinha, Secretary, Art, Literature, Culture, Government of Rajasthan. On this occasion,
other dignitaries who were also present included Mr. Deokho Kim, Managing Director,
Samsung Research & Development Institute, Delhi, Dr. Kaushik Saha, CTO, Samsung
R&D Institute, India, and Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur.
The lab is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities and high-end equipment, allowing the
users to create technology solutions and stimulate skilling and re-skilling educational
programs in AR-VR, which can have a transformative impact on society and technology.
The lab is a part of Samsung Digital Academy, which is the company’s corporate social
initiative. It aims to bridge the country’s digital divide and proficiency gaps by skilling
students in Digital Heritage, Immersive Experience, and Human-Computer Interaction.
As AR and VR are finding applications in diverse fields like education, industrial design,
robotics, infrastructure management, and medicine, students of different programs in the
Institute will take advantage of this facility. Courses at the lab would be run by Samsung
engineers in conjunction with the faculty of IIT-Jodhpur and will be offered to students of
IIT Jodhpur.
The lab is a joint initiative between IIT Jodhpur and Samsung R&D Institute India-Delhi
(SRI-D).The lab is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities and high-end equipment,
allowing the users to create technology solutions and stimulate skilling and re-skilling
educational programs in AR-VR, which can have a transformative impact on society
and technology. The lab is a part of Samsung Digital Academy, which is the company’s
corporate social initiative. It aims to bridge the country’s digital divide and proficiency
gaps by skilling students in Digital Heritage, Immersive Experience, and Human-
Computer Interaction. Some of the ongoing projects relate to medical solutions and
game development.
Laboratories and equipment
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Vehicular Ad-Hoc
Networks (VANETs) Lab This laboratory is equipped with licensed QualNet Network Emulator Software,
Duckiebots Setup, Implementation of Real Time Vehicular Networks Testbed (using OBU
& RSU) and open source software such as ns2/ns3 and OmNet ++ among many others.
The students also get hands-on with experiments using Network.
VANET laboratory is equipped with DuckieTowns Setup, licensed QualNet Network
Simulator Software, Implementation of Real-Time Vehicular Networks Testbed (using
OBU & RSU) and open sources software such as ns2/ns3 and OmNet ++ among many
others. DuckieTowns are the urban environments: roads, constructed from exercise mats
and tape, and the signage which the robots use to navigate around. DuckieTowns can
be transformed into smart cities by adding traffic lights and watchtowers. Duckietown is
an integration of advanced technologies using electronics, computers, communication
and smart sensors. The designed testbed can increase the scientific value by simulating
vehicle autonomy and decrease the cost using real life simulation projects.
Hardware (i.e., IoT devices, Raspberry Pi, Routers, Switches, Firewalls, PCs, Servers,
Laptops, Sensors, and Arduino) which help to monitor network usage, bandwidth,
throughput, delay and security attacks.
High end equipment facilities
Various department labs are equipped with high 
end equipment to support a variety of research and 
academic facilities. AR-VR labs is well established with 
Virtual Reality Systems, Gear VR, Smartphones, high 
end iMac systems, spherical cameras, VR gaming 
system, and leap motion devices. The lab provides just 
enough infrastructure for developing various AR/VR 
solutions and testing them in the lab environment.
The VANET lab has fully established Duckietown that 
provides bots, city navigation packs, programmed 
controlled traffic lights tod design, develop, and 
execute various approaches for testing and validating 
various solutions for smart city infrastructure, 
established with support from HEFA loan.
The Hardware lab is also well equipped with Kintex-7 
FPGA development boards, Ordoid X, Nvidia Jetson 
Xavier NX development kits to support design and 
development of various prototype solutions based 
on edge and fog computing. Our Network lab has a 
NetFPGA Cube. We also have facilities for EEG, Eye 
Tracker, Thermal Camera. In terms of computational 
resources, in addition to the resources available at 
the institute leve, the department has multiple GPU 
workstations and servers, DGX statations, and DGX-2 
servers with NET App storage to support high end data
collection and processing tasks. We are also in the 
process of purchasing a Data Processing Unit Server 
with support from the DST FIST infrastructure support.
Outreach activities
The department of Computer Science and Engineering 
is actively engaged in a number of outreach activities 
showcasing state of the art trends and development 
across numerous areas. Some of these initiatives are 
described as follows.
Seminars/ Workshops/ 
Conferences organized
Conferences Organized
•

IEEE International Conference on Automatic Face 
and Gesture Recognition, 2021
•

Indian Conference on Vision, Graphics and Image 
Processing, 2021
•
ACM Grad Cohort, 2022
ACM - Student Chapter
•
Student Research Symposium 2022 (SRS’22 )
•
iS3: iDeathon on Sustainable Smart Systems
•
Tech Talk
•
Hour of Code
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Speaker Affiliation (with country) Title of the Talk
Dr. Manish Gupta Microsoft Bing, India Compression of Deep Learning Models for NLP
Dr. Karthik Mohan University of Washington, USA Deep Learning case-studies: Recommender
systems for online shopping and Task-oriented
Natural Language Generation system
Swaprava Nath IIT Bombay Computational Mechanism Design for Social
Decisions
Dr. Lawqueen Kanesh IIT Jodhpur Parameterized Algorithms for Model Counting
Dr. Sajal K. Das Missouri University of Science and
Technology, USA Merely Fun with Algorithms
Mr. Brijesh Pillai Mercedes Benz RD Pvt. Ltd, India Intelligent Occupant sensing in Car Interiors
Dr. Sushmita Gupta IMSc, Chennai Matching under preferences: Stability to popularity
Dr. Amit Sethi IIT Bombay Towards Precision Oncology using Machine
Learning on Medical Images
Dr. Angshuman Paul IIT Jodhpur Data-efficient Machine Learning for the Diagnosis of
Chest Radiographs
Dr. Salil Kanhere UNSW, Sydney Transparent, Trustworthy and Privacy-Preserving
Supply Chains
Dr. Bharatkumar
Sharma NVIDIA Powering the Next Era of Analytics and AI with GPU
Dr.Sridhar
Chimalakonda IIT Tirupati What Is Software Engineering Anyway? Reflections
on 50 Years of Software Engineering and the Road
Ahead!
Dr. Kalyanmoy Deb Michigan State University, USA Explainable AI (XAI) using Nonlinear Decision Trees
Dr. Vinay Kulkarni TCS Decision-making in the face of uncertainty
Dr. Heena Rathore University of Texas, USA Brain Variable Reward Structure for Cooperative
Machine Learning in IoT Network
Dr. Sajal K. Das Missouri University of Science and
Technology, USA From Smart-Sensing to Smart Living
Dr. Joscha Bach VP of Research at AI Foundation,
San Francisco, USA What would make an intelligent system generally
intelligent?
Dr. Nimrod Talmon Ben-Gurion University, Israel Participatory Budgeting - Making Budgeting Great
Again
Dr. Nalini K. Ratha State University at Buffalo, USA Trustworthy AI Systems
Dr. Ishan Misra Facebook AI Research, USA Multi-view invariance and grouping for self-
supervised learning
Dr. Saket Saurabh Institute of Mathematical Sciences Picking Random Vertices
Dr. Anush Sankaran IBM Research AI “Why do we need to Optimize Deep Learning
Models?”
Department Webinar
The department of Computer Science and Engineering started a bi-weekly webinar series in 2021 comprising talks 
on various topics in Computer Science &amp; Engineering. We invite eminent speakers from various institutes as 
well as industries. These talks are open for everybody across the world, and approximately 100 people from outside 
IITJ have registered for attending the webinars. We organized the following talks in 2021-2022.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

The faculty members of the department of Computer 
Science and Engineering were invited to give talks at 
the following places and events.
Anand Mishra
•

Pre-conference workshop on multimodal 
interactions at ICMI 2022
•

"Introduction to Neural Networks" at the 
"International Research Workshop on Advances in 
Deep Learning and Applications (WADLA 2021)", 
organized by IIIT Sri City, Chittor, on February 22, 
2021.
Anghuman Paul
•

'Application of Machine/Deep Learning" on June 16 
at the Indian Statistical Institute.
•

Tutorial on 'Meta-Learning for Medical Image 
Analysis' at the tutorial on Meta learning for medical 
image analysis at MICCAI 2021.
•

Data-efficient Machine Learning for the Diagnosis of 
Chest Radiographs, at the Department Webinar, on 
August 27, 2021 at 5pm (IST)
Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay
•

"Introduction to Immersive Technology (AR/VR) and 
its Application" at the Open Innovation Tech Series 
- VILT Session, organized by Samsung, on August 
27, 2021.
Debasis Das
•

Blockchain and Its Applications at NIT Surathkal, 
SERB Sponsored Workshop on Advanced Topics in 
Network Security from 30th May −5thJune2022.
•

Cyber Crimes and Safety at Cyber Jagurakta Diwas 
on June 4, 2022 organized by Ministry of Education
•

Explainable Artificial Intelligence and the Future 
at MNIT Jaipur, AICTE-FDP and MNIT Jaipur 
Sponsored Workshop from 20-24 Dec 2021.
•

STTP on Research Methodology at LCIT Bilashpur, 
AICTE-FDP and LCIT Group Sponsored Workshop 
from 21-26 march 2022.
•

Industrial Internet of Things at KLE university, AICTE-
FDP and KLE University Sponsored Workshop from 
3-7 January 2022.
•

Pedagogy Innovative Methods of Teaching and 
Learning, at KLE university, AICTE-ISTE and BIET 
Sponsored Workshop from 7-12 Feb 2022.
Pallavi Jain
•

Invited at Dagstuhl seminar on Matching Under 
Preferences: Theory and Practice. She also gave 
a talk on Almost Stable Marriage in the seminar on 
July 29, 2021.
Mayank Vatsa
•

Trustable Biometrics, Amazon Computer Vision 
Conference, 2022
•

Mayank Vatsa to speak on Human-Machine 
Interaction on September 17, 2021 in the 'Going 
Virtual' session (2:30pm-6:00pm) at the Global 
Virtual Technology Summit 2021, presented by 
PANIIT.
•

Expert panelist on CL Educate Presents Academia 
Connect (Nvidia Technology Partner) for a talk on 
"Path to Making India the AI Factory and Resource 
Pool for the World", on June 23, 2021.
•

Talk on "Dependable Computer Vision" on April 13, 
2021 at Nvidia GTC 21.
•

Invited talk on "Artificial Intelligence and Machine 
Learning – Opportunities and Challenges" at the 
National Defense College, Delhi
•

Role of Adversarial Perturbations in Deep Learning, 
BOSCH 2021
•
Trusted Face Recognition, IDRBT 2021
•
Trustworthy AI, ACM CODS-COMAD 2021
Richa Singh
•

Panel on Facing the Truth: Benefits and Challenges 
of Facial Recognition, organized by IEEE TechEthics.
•

Panel on Mitigating Bias on Face Recognition, 
organized by IndiaAI. Panelist along with Connor 
Wright (Montreal AI Ethics Institute), and Jibu Alias 
as moderator.
Our Faculty Webinars & Events
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Somitra Sanadhya
•

Somitra Sanadhya and Suman Kundu gave talks 
at the "Cyber Jaagrukta Diwas" on May 4, 2022 
- organized by the Ministry of Education and the 
Ministry of Home Affairs
•

Talk on post-quantum crypto in a webinar by CDoT 
on 12th Oct 2021 Tuesday from 2-4:30pm. Meeting 
link @ www.cdot.in
•

International Webinar session on How to build the 
fastest track for a Global Career in Cyber Defense 
on 6th Oct 2021.
Suchetana Chakraborty
•

Invited Talk on “Balancing work-life in Academics” at 
ACM Grad-Cohort 2022 by Suchetana Chakraborty
•

Invited Talk on “MEC and Urban Informatics” at 
ICDCN Tutorial 2022
•

Panelist for discussions on "How to become a 
successful Cyber Defense Professional" on May 19, 
2021, 5-6pm (IST).
Sumit Kalra
•

Invited speaker to talk on Innovations in Healthcare 
in the India-Sweden Innovation Challenge 
organized by AIIMS Jodhpur in collaboration with 
Business Sweden on 24th September, 2021.
•

Big Data Analytics - Cloud Centric framework from 
IoT Perspective - FDP "Artificial Intelligence for IoT 
services in Cloud: Techniques & Applications
•

Contemporary Big Data Processing and Analytical 
Frameworks - STTP on “BIG DATA ANALYTICS 
USING SOFT COMPUTING TOOLS”, NIT Jalandhar
•

Contemporary Data Processing and Analytical 
tools and frameworks for Deep Learning - FDP on 
Deep Learning and Its Applications, Rajiv Gandhi 
University (A central university), Arunachal pradesh 
& NIT Warangal
Suman Kundu
•

Cyber Crimes and Safety at Cyber Jagurakta Diwas 
on May 4, 2022 organized by Ministry of Education
•

Social Network Analysis Using Rough Set and 
Fuzzy Sets" at Short Term Training Programme on 
Big Data Analytics Using Soft Computing Tools (For 
Data Analytics) on Sep 29, 2021 organized by Rajiv 
Gandhi University (A central university)
•

Network Data Science at Faculty Development 
Program(FDP) on “Data Science” on Aug 08, 2021 
organized by GL Bajaj Institute of Technology and 
Management Greater Noida
•

Social Media Analytics at Five Day National Police 
Perspective Management Course organized by 
Bureau Of Police Research And Development
Placements
PhD Students
Ravi Sharma
Supervisor: Venkata Ramana Badarla
Current Position: Research Associate, SPIN Laboratory, 
Dept. of Electrical Engineering, Indian Institute of 
Technology Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh
Shreya Goyal
Supervisor: Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay, Gaurav 
Bhatnagar
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Department of Electrical 
Engineering
Introduction to the department:
The Department of Electrical Engineering primarily 
focuses on imparting quality education and preparing 
students to face the future technological challenges. The 
Vision of the Department is to generate and disseminate 
knowledge and develop technologies in emerging 
domains of Electrical Engineering to meet the national 
and global needs. The Department is committed to 
engage in high quality research by Faculty Members and 
Students and in the pursuit of excellence in teaching.
The Mission of the Department is :
•

To impart education with emphasis on fundamental 
knowledge and its applications through pedagogical 
innovations 
including 
experiential 
learning, 
synchronous 
and 
asynchronous 
instructional 
delivery,
•

To make significant contributions in fundamental 
research and advancing technology in different 
areas of Electrical Engineering with emphasis on 
Cyber Physical Systems, Artificial Intelligence of 
Things, 5G and Beyond Systems, and Smart Grid,
•

To contribute towards innovation, technology 
development, IP generation, and entrepreneurship 
involving the thrust areas of Electrical Engineering,
•

To collaborate with various organizations for 
research, teaching and technology development,
to 
synchronize 
and 
contribute 
towards 
the 
transformational 
changes 
in 
the 
Electrical 
Engineering landscape, and
•

To enhance the perception of the Department 
through different avenues and contribute towards 
continuing education and upskilling programs.
The Department offers B.Tech. in Electrical Engineering 
and two state-of-the-art M.Tech. programs in Sensors 
and Internet of Things (SIoT) and Cyber Physical Systems 
(CPS). The Department also offers M.Tech.- Ph.D. 
Dual Degree programs in Communication and Signal 
Processing (CSP), Sensors and Internet of Things (SIoT) 
and Cyber Physical Systems (CPS). The Ph.D. program of 
the Department covers a wide range of research areas, 
such as Microelectronics, VLSI and Computing Systems, 
Signal Processing, Communication Engineering, RF, 
Microwave & Photonics, Power Engineering, and Control 
systems. Technology Tracks currently pursued by the 
Department include emerging and challenging fields 
that culminate at the intersection of several traditional 
research areas. Department faculty members are also 
engaged in groundbreaking interdisciplinary research 
in collaboration with faculty members across various 
departments through the Institute’s Interdisciplinary 
Research Platforms (IDRPs).
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Active collaborations are on-going with organizations 
like UC Berkeley, Carleton University, TIMA laboratory 
(Grenoble, France), Technion-Israel Institute of 
Technology, Norwegian University of Science and 
Technology (Gjovik, Norway), Higher Institute of Applied 
Sciences and Technology of Sousse (Tunisia), IISc 
Bangalore, IIT Delhi, IIT Kanpur, IIT Mandi, IIT Bombay, 
IIITM Kerala, IIT Madras, IIST Thiruvananthapuram, 
Society for Applied Microwave Electronics Engineering 
and Research, Indian Space Research Organization, 
Freescale Semiconductors, Global Foundries, AIIMS
Jodhpur, Defence Research and Development 
Organization.
The Department won many accolades during 2020-
21 at the Institute level including 2020 Teaching 
Excellence Awards, Research Excellence Award, 
and the Meritorious Staff Award. During the Covid 
pandemic, the Department adopted innovative teaching 
initiatives for prompt and smooth transition into online 
teaching. The Department also formed its Departmental 
Society that would organize various webinars, events, 
and workshops for the students throughout the year.
Faculty Members
Arun Kumar Singh
Head of the Department
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Communication Theory, Wireless and 
Mobile Communications, Satellite 
based Navigation Systems, Spread 
Spectrum Systems
Abdul Gafoor Shaik
Associate Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Protection of various components 
of Power System, Protection 
of Distribution Network with 
DG penetration, Power Quality 
assessment and mitigation in 
Distribution Networks with Renewable 
Energy Source penetration
Amandeep Kaur
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Analog and Mixed-Signal Circuit 
Design, Data Converters (ADC, DAC), 
High-speed circuits, CMOS image 
sensors
Aashish Mathur
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Power Line Communications, Free 
Space Optical Communications, 
Visible Light Communications
Ajay Agarwal
Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Microelectronics; Micro- Nano-
technologies; Sensors; Micro-fluidics, 
Point-of-Care devices and Early 
diagnostics
Amit Bhardwaj
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Human Haptics, Computer Haptics, 
Haptics for Teleoperation and 
Applications of Machine Learning
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Anil Kumar Tiwari
Associate Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Electrical Engineering: Image 
Processing, Video Processing, and 
Signal Processing application in Bio-
Medical
Arani Ali Khan
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
RF and Microwave Engineering.
Bijnan Bandyopadhyay
Visiting Professor, FNAE, FNASc,FASc, 
IEEE Fellow, Fellow AAIA
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Variable structure systems, Discrete-
time sliding mode control, Event 
triggered sliding mode control, 
Modeling and control of large size 
nuclear reactor.
Deepakkumar M. Fulwani
Associate Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Embedded Control, Control of 
Micro-Grids and Control of Uncertain 
System
Himanshu Kumar
Associate Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Image and Video Processing, 
Computer Vision, Computational 
Imaging, Deep Learning
Anoop Jain
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Cooperative Control; Multi-Agent 
Systems; Formation Control; 
Nonlinear Control; Event-Triggered 
Control, Cyber-Physical Systems
Arpit Arvind Khandelwal
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Group III-V Optoelectronic Devices, 
Fiber Optics and Integrated Optics 
Sensors, Non-Linear Photonics, 
Silicon Photonics and Optical 
Communication
Binod Kumar
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
SoC Design Verification & Testing, 
Hardware Security & Trust, Hardware 
Design for AI, VLSI CAD, Computer 
Architecture
Harshit Agarwal
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Industry standard compact modeling; 
Analog and RF modeling, Energy 
efficient next generation transistors, 
emerging memories
Jai Narayan Tripathi
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
VLSI Circuits and Systems, Signal 
Integrity, Power Integrity, Design 
of Experiments, Metaheuristic 
Optimization Techniques
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Kamaljit Rangra
Visiting Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Microelectronics, RF, Bio and Inertial-
MEMS, Transducers and Actuators
Mahesh Kumar
Associate Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Group III-V quantum structures 
by MBE, Growth of thin films and 
nanostructures, Group III-nitride alloys 
for LEDs, HEMTs and photovoltaic 
applications, Inorganic-Inorganic 
hybrid structures with special 
attention to band gap engineering, Si 
and wide band gap semiconductors 
for MEMS, Micro and Nano device 
fabrications
Manoj Choudhary
Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Communication Systems (Wireless 
- 4G/5G/6G, Modem/WLAN/WPAN/
UWB) and networks; System on Chip; 
Embedded Systems & Software; 
Image Sensors and signal processing; 
Internet of Things and smart homes; 
AI, ML and computer vision
Nishant Kumar
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Power System Optimization 
and Control; Renewable Energy 
Generation; Control of Microgrid 
& Smart Grid; Electric Vehicle; 
Cybersecurity for Electric Power 
Infrastructure
Kunwar Aditya
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Power Electronics; Wireless Power 
Transfer; Transportation Electrification; 
Electrical Energy Storage Systems; 
Automotive Electronics
Manish Narwaria
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Multimedia signal processing
Niladri Sekhar Tripathy
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Dynamics and Control, Mechatronics 
and Cyber Physical Systems
Nitin Bhatia
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Fiber Optics and Photonics
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Rajendra Nagar
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Computer Vision; Image Processing; 
Computer Graphics; 3D Shape 
Analysis; Geometry Processing
Ravi Yadav
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Power system dynamics, Wide 
area monitoring systems, anomaly 
detection and characterization, AI/ML 
applications to power systems, and 
cyber-attack modelling and diagnosis
Sai Kiran M. P. R.
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Millimeter-wave Communications; 
Autonomous Vehicular 
Communications; Internet of Things; 
Cyber-Physical Systems; Wireless 
Network Modeling and Analysis
Shree Prakash Tiwari
Associate Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Microelectronics & VLSI Technology, 
Microfabrication, Organic Electronics, 
Device Physics and Characterization, 
New Device Structures
Rajlaxmi Chouhan
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Image processing, image quality 
assessment, noise-aided image 
enhancement, e-learning tools and 
techniques
Saakshi Dhanekar
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Nano-sensors for societal 
applications, device development, 
gas- and bio-sensors, MEMS, silicon 
based devices
Sandeep Kumar Yadav
Associate Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Signal Processing, Condition 
Monitoring, Image Processing, 
Data Compression, Blind Source 
Separation, Artificial Neural Network
Soumava Mukherjee
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Microwave Communication
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Current Research Themes Associated Technology Tracks
• Satellite-based navigation receiver design • 5G and Beyond Communication
• Rate, reliability and complexity limits in MIMO communications • IoT Communications (AIoT)
Adjunct Faculty Members
Hari Mohan Gupta
B.Tech. (Electronics and Communication Engineering): Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee 
(University of Roorkee) 
M.Tech. (Electronics and Electrical Communication Engineering) : Indian Institute of Technology 
Kharagpur
Ph.D. (Electrical Engineering): Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur
Formerly Professor (HAG), Chair Professor, and Emeritus Professor
Department of Electrical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Delhi
Dean Undergraduate Studies, IIT, Delhi (September 2002 – July 2003)
Head, Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Delhi, (September 2001- August 2002)
Associate Head, Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Delhi. (September 1999-August 2001)
Founding Coordinator, Bharti School of Telecommunication Technology and Management, IIT, 
Delhi (September 2000-August 2002)
R. M. Suresh Babu
M.Sc.(Physics): Indian Institute Technology, Bombay
Distinguished Scientist & Director, Health Safety & Environment Group
Bhabha Atomic Research Center, mumbai 400 085
Description of Research Groups
Communication Systems
The research spans several aspects of wireless communications and communication signal processing, with 
the aim to provide for theoretical breakthroughs as well as practical solutions to problems pertaining to futuristic 
communication networks. In particular, the focus is on the information theoretic performance analysis of wireless 
communication systems including multiuser communication networks, cooperative communication networks, MIMO 
communication systems, and algorithmic solutions to satellite based navigation receiver design.
Our research is highly conducive to multi-disciplinary collaboration; it builds on a diverse set of theoretical 
breakthroughs in information theory, communication theory, large deviation theory, matrix theory, linear algebra, and 
coding theory.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Current Research Themes Associated Technology Tracks
• Millimeter Wave antennas and circuits for 5G application • 5G and beyond Communications
• Chipless RFID • IoT Communications (AIoT)
• Microwave passive components (Filter, coupler, crossover etc.) • IoT Sensors, RFID (AIoT)
Current Research Themes Associated Technology Tracks
• Visual Computing (Computer Vision, Visual Forensics, Machine
Learning) • Signal Processing & Interpretation
RF, Microwaves and Photonics
With the rapid technological improvements in hand-held devices such as tablets and mobile phones, the 
requirement of faster access to wireless resources is ever increasing. The group mainly focuses on design of 
active and passive components for modern transceivers. Along with research in high frequency circuit design, the 
group aims to improve the quality of understanding in microwave engineering through various practical as well as 
computer aided simulations.
Optical Techniques would be the fundamental enabler for many future technologies and applications including 
high-speed data communication systems and Internet of Things. The Photonics group in the department is working 
on exploring various device applications of multimode optical fibers. The current work is towards generating 
arbitrary multimode beams and highly pure Laguerre-Gaussian (LG) beams in free-space. The group is also 
targeting the generation of orbital angular momentum beams using optical fibers, and their use in free-space optical 
communication systems. In addition, the group also works on security issues in the Physical layer in free-space 
optical networks.
Signal Processing
The Signal Processing Research Group of IIT Jodhpur currently focuses on a wide range of applications such as 
multimedia processing, computer vision, quality assessment, haptics, and computational imaging.
Associated Research Laboratories
•
Signal Processing Lab (Room 214)
•
Image Processing & Computer Vision Lab (Room 218)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Current Research Themes Associated Technology Tracks
• Oxide metal semiconductors by sputtering for sensor
applications • Nanoelectronics and Integrated Circuits
• 2D materials: MoS2, AlGaN/GaN HEMTs • Embedded Computing and SoC
• Bandgap engineering and surface studies of semiconductors • Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT)
Current Research Themes Associated Technology Tracks
• Multi-agent system • Cyber-Physical Systems
• Mechatronics & cyber-physical system • Embedded Computing and SoC
Current Research Themes Associated Technology Tracks
• Protection • Smart Grid
• Power Quality • Cyber Physical Systems
Control Systems
Welcome to the control system research group of the Department of Electrical Engineering at Indian Institute of 
Technology Jodhpur. It facilitates faculty, students who are conducting research and thesis work along with industry 
projects in the field of Microgrid and Electric vehicle applications.
Power Engineering
Welcome to the Power Engineering Group of the Department of Electrical Engineering at IIT Jodhpur.
Microelectronics and VLSI
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Computing Systems
The research theme on Computing Systems focuses 
on novel approaches to processing and computation 
for energy- and memory-efficient hardware. With 
the availability of massive data acquisition and data 
processing, the research in future computing systems 
is oriented towards memory-driven computing AI 
architectures.
Research Themes
•
Advanced processor technologies
•
Neuromorphic computing
Real-time scheduling algorithms for multicore 
processors and heterogeneous platforms
Academic Programmes
UG Programs in the Department of Electrical 
Engineering
The vision of the Department is to develop a world 
class teaching and research atmosphere by excelling in 
fundamental knowledge and applications of Electrical 
Engineering through curricular and co-curricular 
activities. To accomplish this, the department offers 
an undergraduate program in the broad discipline of 
electrical engineering, with embedded capability-linked 
specializations, for enabling the students to pursue 
a chosen career path. The 4 year B.Tech program 
provides the core electrical engineering concepts 
ranging from circuit analysis and design, computing, 
control, communication, signal processing, and power 
engineering. To equip the students with the essential 
knowledge and problem solving skills, the curriculum 
provides strong foundations in basic sciences. In 
addition, the engineering design component is 
integrated throughout the structure, motivating and 
familiarizing students with real-world engineering 
challenges. Additional problem-solving skills and 
practical experiences are developed through design 
projects and state-of-the-art laboratory experiments. 
The structure enables the students to shape their 
curriculum at various stages. This includes opting for a 
department specialization, transition to 5-year B.Tech.
and M.Tech. Dual Degree program, an additional minor 
in relevant areas such as Entrepreneurship.
Salient Features of the UG Programs
•

New broad-based curriculum and flexible program 
structure
•

Balance of theoretical foundation, hands-on, and 
experiential learning
•
Emphasis on design-oriented thinking, creativity, 
and life-long learning
•

Capability-linked Minor, Interdisciplinary, and 
Department-specific Specializations
•

Skillset targeted towards emerging technologies 
like 5G & Beyond Communication, Industry 4.0, & 
Smart City Technologies
•

Prepares students to compete effectively in a world 
of rapid technological advancements
•

Option to pursue entrepreneurship & industry 
collaboration through engineering innovation
•

Startup ecosystems to translate ideas into business 
models (Tinkering Lab, Technology Innovation & 
Startup Center (TISC), & Research Park)
Expected Graduate Attributes
•

Strong understanding of fundamentals of 
mathematics, science and engineering with 
emphasis on electrical technologies for 
Communication, Signal Processing, Devices & 
Circuits, Computing Systems, Control Engineering, 
and Power Engineering
•

Ability to apply technical skills to identify, formulate, 
and solve complex problems encountered in 
modern electrical engineering practices
•

Ability to model, analyze, design and experimentally 
evaluate electrical components or systems that 
achieve desired technical specifications, subject to 
certain resource constraints
•

Ability to compete effectively in a world of 
rapid technological advancements and assume 
leadership roles within academic, industrial, or 
entrepreneurial environments in the broad context 
of electrical engineering
•

Foundations for critical thinking that are needed to 
broaden their careers in diverse disciplines through
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

minor/graduate-level studies and the process of 
lifelong learning
•

Ability to recognize and practice professional ethics 
in working environment
•

Ability to acquire new knowledge and apply it as 
needed.
•
Learning Outcomes
•

To acquire knowledge of electrical engineering 
principles along with the required understanding 
of computing, engineering fundamentals, 
mathematics, and science
•

To apply the concepts of mathematics, sciences 
and engineering (including computing science) 
necessary to analyze and design complex electrical 
and electronic circuits and systems containing 
hardware and software modules
•

To gain in-depth understanding of concepts of 
Signals, Devices, Circuits, Systems, Machine 
Learning, Programming, Control, Communications, 
Hardware Design and related interdisciplinary 
topics
•

To create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, 
resources, electrical engineering design and 
computing tools to solve complex engineering 
problems with an understanding of the limitations 
through laboratory exercises and design projects
•

To perform literature review and patent landscaping 
for innovative research
•
To adapt to work in multidisciplinary environment
•

To understand professional ethics and social 
responsibilities
•
To communicate effectively
•

To engage in independent and life-long learning in 
the context of technological advancements.
•

To conduct product design or entrepreneurial 
activities
This program is designed to provide students a 
basic exposure to Engineering with focus on the 
various domains of Electrical Engineering. These 
domains have been broadly divided into following 
areas: Communication, Computing Systems, Control
Engineering, Devices and Circuits, Signal Processing, 
and Power Engineering. The program aims to connect 
academics to current emerging technologies and 
industrial requirements in these domains.
The program also encompasses rigorous experimental 
components along with global standard courses 
comparable to top most universities. The program 
is also flexible enough to provide students options 
to shape the curriculum according to their interest. 
Students having inclined interest in any specific area as 
specified above can opt for relevant specialization.
B.Tech. with Specialization (4 Years)
The curriculum offers flexibility to students for pursuing 
capability-linked specializations of their choice. The 
department specializations are designed to enable 
students to lead technological innovations addressing 
the emerging industrial and societal challenges in 
various domains of electrical engineering. The EE 
students can opt for any one of the departmental 
specializations as mentioned below. The in-depth 
understanding and technical skills acquired through 
these specializations will enable graduates to play 
a vital role in advancement of technologies such as 
5G/6G communications, smart cities, smart healthcare, 
and Industry 4.0. Students with research inclination 
also have options for 5-year B.Tech. andM.Tech. Dual 
Degree program.
Department Specializations (Click on the respective 
links to know more about these specializations)
•
Cyber Physical Systems
•
Communication Engineering
•
Intelligent Communication and Networking
•
Visual Computing
•
Socio-digital Reality
•
Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT)
•
VLSI Systems
•
Nano and Flexible Electronics
•
Smart Grid
•
Engineering Innovation
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

B.Tech. with Minor (4 Years)
The institute also offers a 4-year B.Tech. program 
with minors in Entrepreneurship or Management 
or interdisciplinary specializations. Such a flexible 
curriculum enables students to pursue diverse career 
goals by choosing the curriculum based on their 
interests.Students will also have an opportunity to opt 
for a B. Tech. - Master’s dual degree in their chosen 
specialization or minor area. The curriculum also 
offers numerous options that enable students to gain 
industrial experience through collaborative industrial 
projects at industries and entrepreneurship experience 
at the Institute’s incubation centre.
A B.Tech. student having opted for major/minor 
specialization with CGPA 6 or more at the end 
of the seventh semester and fulfilling minimum 
credit requirements may be allowed to switch to 
B.Tech.- M.Tech. dual degree program in the chosen 
specialization at the beginning of the eighth semester. 
The M.Tech degree can be any one of the approved 
programmes of the institute. All requirements of M.Tech. 
degree will be applicable to all such students.
B.Tech. - MBA (5 Years)
IIT Jodhpur also provides options to BTech students 
to earn a Tech-MBA degree via a transition program. 
Students having inclination towards business can 
opt for this dual-degree program at the start of 5th 
semester. This program offers a range of specializations 
such as Business Analytics, Cyber Security, Financial 
Engineering, Technology Consulting, Technology 
Product Management.
The Tech-MBA is a reflection of the growing demand 
for business leaders to have an exposure in various 
technological fields such as artificial intelligence (AI), 
fintech and robotics. Tech-MBA is a new wholesome 
program totally focussing on the tech sector such as 
digital finance, data analytics and AI, as well as digital 
transformation. The aim of such a program is to enable 
students to apply their tech expertise within a business 
context. The program focuses on covering important 
aspects of corporate strategy analysis of top tech 
companies, like Amazon, Google, and tech-centric
companies, such as start-ups in addition to business 
strategy. The economics and operations are going 
to be introduced with strong emphasis on the digital 
economy and supply chain in e-commerce companies 
respectively.
The Department of Electrical Engineering offers 
following Post Graduate Programs:
Master of Technology Programs:
1. M.Tech. (Intelligent Communication Systems)
2. M.Tech. (Cyber Physical Systems)
3. M.Tech. (Sensors and Internet of Things)
4. 
Executive M.Tech Program in Intelligent VLSI 
Systems
Master of Technology - Doctor of Philosophy 
(M.Tech.-Ph.D.) Dual Degree Programs
1. 
M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Intelligent 
Communication Systems)
2. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Cyber Physical Systems)
3. 
M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Sensors and Internet of 
Things)
PhD Program at Department of Electrical Engineering
The Department of Electrical Engineering offers 
PhD in a wide range of emerging and challenging 
research areas of electrical engineering and allied 
interdisciplinary areas of communication engineering, 
RF, microwaves & photonics, control engineering, 
power engineering, signal processing and computing 
systems, and microelectronics & VLSI. The areas 
can also be mapped with the current technology 
tracks of the Department that include 5G and Beyond 
Communication, Signal Processing & Interpretation, 
Cyber-Physical Systems, Nano-electronics & Integrated 
Circuits, Smart Grid, Embedded systems &SoC, and 
Artificial Intelligence & Internet-of-Things (IoT). Please 
visit Research Overview to know the associated 
research areas, laboratories, and faculty members 
associated with each technology track and research 
area.
Our PhD students are trained to conduct high-quality 
cutting-edge research demonstrated through tangible 
deliverables, and to publish in top ranking journals and
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

1. Mr. IdurySatya Krishna, Ph.D. student of Dr. Soumava Mukherjee, has received
prestigious European Microwave Conference Student Grant Award in EuMC 2022 13 July 2022
2. Best Presentation Award at IEEE ICIET 2022 10 June 2022
3. Dr. AashishMathur have been selected as Exemplary Reviewer for IEEE TCOM for
2021 20 April 2022
4. Mr. NamanBaghel, PhD student has been selected as recipients of the prestigious
TICRA - EurAAP Travel Grant 24 February 2022
5. Mr. NamanBaghel, PhD student has been selected as recipients of the prestigious
2021 IEEE AP-S Doctoral Fellowship Award 24 February 2022
6. Mr. NamanBaghel, PhD student received MrsRanjana Pal Award for practical
applications and design in InCAP’ 2021 13 January 2022
7. Best Paper Awards at IEEE Indicon 2021 19 December 2021
8. Idury Satya Krishna, Ph.D. Student, received prestigious European Microwave
Association (EuMA) internship award. 10 November 2021
9. Mr. NamanBaghel, PhD student has been selected as recipients of the prestigious
IEEE AP-S C.J. Reddy Travel Grant 08 November 2021
10. Dr. M. Kumar received the PIFI visiting scientist fellowship by the Chinese Academy
of Sciences (CAS) 27 September 2021
11. Dr. Mahesh Kumar, Associate Professor, Department of EE, has been appointed
as Associate Editor of IEEE Sensors Journal and as the Executive Editorial Board
Member of Nano Express 15 June 2021
12. The Department of EE congratulates Dr. Mahesh Kumar, Associate Professor,
Department of EE for the prestigious Fulbright-Nehru Academic and Professional
Excellence Fellowship to conduct research at MIT, USA. 15 June 2021
conferences. Specially-designed courses on technical 
communication and Intellectual Property Rights enable 
students in quality expression as well as patent 
landscaping for potential IP and business translation 
of their work. Weekly colloquium enables the students 
to keep open avenues of sharing ideas and learning 
from peers. Students have round-the-clock access 
to high-end research and computational facilities,
and also have the opportunity of one additional year 
of fellowship after thesis submission to engage in 
translational and entrepreneurial initiatives arising out 
of their PhD work. On graduation, our doctoral students 
are trained in critical thinking, research, development, 
operations and management of emerging technological 
challenges for both industry and academia.
Significant Research Achievements
Faculty/ Department Laurels
Dr. Aashish Mathur
1. 
Awarded Exemplary Reviewer 2021 for IEEE 
Transactions on Communications by IEEE 
Communications Society.
2. 
Co-authored paper with PhD Student, Gyan 
Deep Verma, titled “Secrecy Performance of FSO
communication systems with nonzero boresight 
pointing errors” recognized as top cited paper 
2020-21 in IET Communications.
3. 
Adjunct faculty (Part-Time), BSTTM, IIT Delhi (April 
2022- March 2025).
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

4. 
Delivered an expert talk in a short term course 
“Statistical Modelling and Analysis of Advanced 
Wireless Communication Systems” under AICTE-
QIP Scheme organized by IIT Indore in March 2022.
5. 
Delivered an expert talk in TEQIP III sponsored 
1 Week online short term course on “Modern 
Wireless Communication Systems and Antenna 
Engineering with Experimental Learning” on 18th 
March, 2021 held in NIT Sikkim.
6. 
Co-authored paper titled “Reconfigurable Intelligent 
Surface for Mixed FSO-RF Systems with Co-Channel 
Interference” appeared in the list of Popular Articles 
of IEEE Communications Letters for Feb, 2021.
Dr. Kunwar Aditya
1.	

Delivered an Expert talk in a Workshop organized 
by IIT Mandi on Wireless Power Technologies for 
E-Transportation Applications. Date 5th of May 
2022.
Dr. Soumava Mukherjee
•

Our paper is listed in Popular Documents - April 
2021 of IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems 
II: Express Briefs (Includes the 50 most frequently 
accessed documents for this publication.) https://
ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/topAccessedArticles.
jsp?punumber=8920
•

Our paper Design of dual band and dual-polarised 
dual band SIW cavity backed bow-tie slot antennas 
has been identified as most cited paper in IET 
Microwaves, Antennas & Propagation in March, 
2020.
•

Our EL paper “Dual-mode SICL bandpass filter 
with via based perturbation technique for Ku-band” 
listed in 50 most frequently accessed documents in 
September 2020. [Link]
•

Our paper Air filled substrate integrated waveguide 
cavity backed slot antenna has been one of the 
top downloaded in between January 2018 and 
December 2019 in Microw Opt Technol Lett.
•

Recipient of URSI Young Scientist Award, APRASC 
2019
•

Best paper award in IEEE-INAE workshop on 
Electromagnetics 2018 for the paper “Design of
Elliptical SIW cavity backed High Gain slot antenna” 
authored by S. Mukherjee, A. Biswas.
•

One transaction paper is selected for top cover 
page of the journal issue (IEEE Transactions on 
Antennas and Propagation, vol. 66, no. 8, Aug. 
2018)
•

Recipient of DST-INSPIRE Faculty Award, Govt. of 
India (July, 2016 session)
•

Ph.D. Student, Idury Satya Krishna received 
prestigious European Microwave Association 
(EuMA) internship award.
•

Alumni of our research group, Mr. Anchal Singh, B. 
Tech (EE), joind Ansys Inc.
•

Mr. Idury Satya Krishna, Ph.D. student of Dr. 
Soumava Mukherjee, has received prestigious 
European Microwave Conference Student Grant 
Award in EuMC 2019 to be held in Paris, France 
during 28 September - 4 October 2019
Dr. Ajay Agarwal
•

Nominated as Director, Governing Board, 
Electronics Sector Skills Council of India (ESSCI), 
New Delhi
•

Guest interviewee, IEEE NTC WIN/DEI Leadership 
interview series, August 19, 2022
•

Guest Editor, for the journal Micromachines (ISSN 
2072-666X), MDPI
•

Plenary talk, Research, Development and 
Innovations in Water Quality Monitoring: Sensors, 
System, Software & Networks (iCEN-64), 29th July 
2022
•

Resource faculty, ATAL - Short Term Course on 
Nano-Sensors, 9th July 2021, IIT Jodhpur
•

Invited speaker, Talk Series on Nano Sensing 
for Healthcare, Tata Consultancy Services, 02nd 
August 2021
•

Invited speaker, Recent Trends in Bio-MEMS 
and Medical Micro devices: From Devices to 
Applications, 22nd August 2021, NIT Silchar
•

Invited speaker, 05th IETE Innovators-Industry 
Meet– 2021, 26th - 27th August 2021, The 
Institution of Electronics and Telecommunication 
Engineers (IETE), New Delhi
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

•

Resource faculty, AICTE- ATAL FDP on Sensor 
Technology, UIET, Kurukshetra, 09th Sept. 2021
•

Invited speaker, Engineer’s Day Celebration at 
Central University of Haryana, 15th Sept. 2021
•

Invited speaker, IEEE Day Celebration at IEEE 
Student Branch SPSU Udaipur, 05th Oct. 2021
•

Invited speaker, Smart Miniaturized Sensors for 
Industry 4.0 & 5.0, Intl. Sym. on Industry - Academia 
Smart Transformation for Industry 4.0 & 5.0 (VIBES), 
IEEE BKBIET Student Branch, 24 October 2021
•

Panellist at Capital Talk - Semiconductor Policy of 
India, Patrika TV Rajasthan, 17th Dec. 2021
•

Resource faculty, Emerging Tools and Techniques 
in VLSI, MEMS & MOEMS (ETTVMM-2022), SKIT 
Jaipur, 26th January 2022
•

Eminent Speaker, Research Conclave 22’ - IIT 
Indore, 10 - 12 Feb, 2022
•

Invited speaker, Workshop on Recent Trends on 
Nanostructured Thin Films & Application, 19th 
February 2022, BITS Pilani
•

Distinguished Subject Expert, Lecture Series on 
Technology Based Evidences for Ayurved Solutions 
in Precision Health organized by Centre for Human 
Resource Development (CHRD), Dr. SR Rajasthan 
Ayurved University, Jodhpur, 7th April 2022
•

Invited speaker, PRAGYATA-2022 - Innovative 
& Sustainable Developments in Electrical & 
Electronics Engineering, 27th May 2022 at Shri 
Vaishnav Vidyapeeth Vishwavidyalaya, Indore
Student Laurels
•

Mr. Idury Satya Krishna, Ph.D. student of Dr. 
Soumava Mukherjee, has received prestigious 
European Microwave Conference Student Grant 
Award in EuMC 2022 to be held in Milan, Italy
•

Mr. Naman Baghel, PhD student has been selected 
as recipients of the prestigious 2021 IEEE AP-S 
Doctoral Fellowship Award
•

Mr. Naman Baghel, PhD student has been selected 
as recipients of the prestigious TICRA - EurAAP 
travel grant Travel Grant
•

Mr. Naman Baghel, PhD student has been selected 
as recipients of the prestigious IEEE AP-S C.J. 
Reddy Travel Grant for attending the 2021 IEEE 
AP-S Symposium on Antennas and Propagation and 
USNC-URSI Radio Science Meeting, Singapore.
•

Mr. Naman Baghel, PhD student has been selected 
as recipients of the Mrs Ranjana Pal Award for 
practical applications and design (Male) for his 
paper in INCAP 2021.
•

K. Srivastava and N. Bhatia, “Practical 
Considerations For 1x4 All-Fiber MMI Based Power 
Splitter Using Square Core Fiber,” in Frontiers in 
Optics + Laser Science 2021, Technical Digest 
Series (Optica Publishing Group, 2021), https://doi.
org/10.1364/FIO.2021.JTu1A.7
•

K. Srivastava and N. Bhatia, “A Multimode 
Interference method for power combining and 
coupling tunable optical power in a single mode 
fiber,” 2022 Conference on Lasers and Electro-
Optics Pacific Rim (CLEO-PR), 2022 (Presented at 
CLEO-PR in Sapporo, Japan between 31st
•

K. Srivastava and N. Bhatia, “Field propagation 
method in a square core optical waveguide for 
designing multimode interference devices,” in 
Frontiers in Optics + Laser Science 2022 (Accepted)
•

Best paper award for Seventh Indian Control 
Conference 2021(ICC, 21), organized by IIT Bombay 
to a Ph.D student Shubham under supervision of Dr. 
Anoop Jain.
Laboratories and equipment
Cyber Physical System Modelling Laboratory
CPS modeling laboratory is a teaching laboratory for 
M.Tech. students. The seamless integration of cyber 
systems with physical systems poses challenges to 
analyse such systems. It is necessary to model physical 
and cyber components in a unified way. The cyber 
component includes hardware and associated software. 
The design of cyber components also requires software 
level abstraction to have a system level model of cyber 
component. This also allows designing a very high 
reliability system as the model allows a predictable 
behaviour. Conventionally software is developed
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

without formal models and largely depends on 
programmers’ experience and knowledge; however, 
requirements of safety, reliability in CPS demand higher 
levels of abstractions at software level as well. This 
allows the system to remain correct by design.
The CPS laboratory studies interaction of physical and 
cyber components to understand holistic systems. The 
tools used for this laboratory are State flow Matlab. 
The laboratory also has a helicopter emulatory system 
which is used to emulate different control aspects 
of the helicopter system. The lab also has COMSOL 
multiphysics modeling software.
Facilities and Equipment
The tools used for this laboratory are Matlab-Stateflow 
and COMSOL multiphysics modeling software.
Control and Computing Laboratory
This lab facilitates students with hand-on experiments 
on the real physical systems that apply fundamentals 
of control system theory. The lab contains a variety of 
equipment used in the design and experimentation of 
digital and analog electromechanical feedback control 
systems. The topics studied in this lab include system 
modeling, digital and analog data acquisition systems, 
electro-mechanical interfacing, controller design, and 
implementation using MATLAB.
The lab also includes equipment and simulation kits 
useful for realizing the various DSP techniques into 
hardware. The lab aims to provide the experience of 
developing various DSP algorithms and then porting 
them to the hardware for real time applications. Thus, 
this bridges the necessary gap of DSP Theory and 
development of hardware aware DSP algorithms. 
The experiments in the DSP lab range from basic 
implementation of sampling, filtering, fourier transform 
to complex real life applications such as noise 
cancellation, audio processing etc.
In addition, the laboratory imparts knowledge of 
processor architecture, real time scheduling algorithms 
and use of different embedded processors in different 
applications. The embedded processors come with 
peripherals like GPIOs, Timers, Analog inputs, I2C Bus, 
USART, RTC etc. The students learn programming of
these peripherals using programming languages like C. 
The students also use assembly language programming 
to understand low level drivers. Students are exposed 
to Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL) for accessing 
different peripherals through high level languages like 
C.
This lab is used for research as well as conducting lab 
experiments in following areas:
•
Control systems
•
Microprocessors and Microcontrollers
•
Embedded systems
•
Digital signal Processing
This lab is also used for conducting experiments 
associated with embedded systems for the M.Tech. 
students enrolled in Cyber Physical Systems and 
Sensors &IoT branches.
Facilities
•
Magnetic Levitation System
•
Ball and Beam
•
Active Suspension System
•
Industrial Emulator
•
Rotary Inverted Pendulum
•
Q-Aero USB (Helicopter)
•
Coupled Tank System
•
Real Time Digital Simulator (RTDS)
•
Data Acquisition System
•
Software MATLAB
•
8085 Based Microprocessor Kits
•
Dual DAC Interface Module
•
Logic Controller Interface Module
•
16 Channel 8-Bit ADC Interface Module
•
LCD(16*2) Interface Module
•
Musical Tone Generator Interface Module
•
Real Time Clock Interface Module
•
Traffic Light Interface Module
•
Elevator Interface Module
•
DM 164134 HPC Curisoity Board
•
Digital Storage Oscilloscope
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

•
Software MP LAB IDE
•
DM6437 Digital Video Development Platform
•
DSP F28335 Board
•
Code composer studio
•
Evaluation Modules TMS320LF2407 EVM board
•
DM642 Digital Media Developer Kit
•
DM6437 Davinci with Camera
•
Video and Image Kit SMT8039
•
KeilμVision Software
•
ST32CubeMX software
•
Cortex-M4 STM32F407VET6 Development Board
•
ST LINK V2 - ST-LINK Programmer
The Electronics Lab is based on hands-on 
experimentation, and exposes students to the basic 
building blocks of electronic circuitry and measurement 
procedures. The lab includes experiments on PN 
diodes, zener regulators, transistor switches and 
amplifiers, digital logic design using gate level ICs, 
and microcontroller-based design. The lab allows the 
students to engage in creative design thinking and 
implement small projects such as rectifiers, audio 
amplifiers, automatic light controller, digital counters 
and finite state machines. In the process, the students 
also learn the use of Function Generator, Power Supply 
and Digital Storage Oscilloscope available in the lab.
The Electronics Lab is used for academic activities for 
the following courses along with B.Tech. Projects across 
the Institute:
•
Introduction to Electrical Engineering
•
Digital Logic & Design
Facilities
•

Arbitrary Function Generator (Tektronics (AFG3021B 
- 25MHz)
•

Digital storage oscilloscope (Agilent & DSO1022A - 
200MHz)
•
Digital Multimetre 61/2 Digit (Agilent 34410A)
•

Programmable DC Power Supply (Scientific 
PSD9005 -30V/1A, 5V/5A)
•
Universal IC Tester (VPL-UICT)
•
Soldering Iron Station (Xytronics LF-2000)
•
Arduino Uno Microcontroller and Sensors
Energy Conversion & Systems Lab
The Energy Conversion & Systems Lab is dedicated for 
research and academic activities in the areas of power 
engineering and electrical machines.
Facilities
•
DC machines
•
Induction machines
•
Synchronous machines
•
Transformers
•
Synchronization panel
•
Directional overcurrent relay
•
Differential relays
•
Continuous Variable Auto Transformer
•

Transformers Rheostat, Ammeters, Voltmeters, 
Wattmeters, Multimeters, resistive and inductive 
loads inductive loads
Electronic Circuit Simulation and VLSI 
Systems Lab
This lab was developed to support the fabless design 
activities. It hosts various design and simulation 
tools related to VLSI design and TCAD simulations 
with the aim of designing low power systems for 
future IoT applications. Following are the summary 
of resources. Many of the the VLSI Design tools are 
supported through SMDP-C2SD project from Ministry of 
Information Technology, Govt. of India, in addition to the 
tools supported by Institute.
•

VLSI Design and Circuit Simulation: Various VLSI 
Design Tools and FPGA kits (with 5 Workstations) 
obtained under SMDP-C2SD project. 11 
Workstations are hosted as a part of Electronic 
Circuits Simulations and Systems Laboratory
•

Device Simulation: Synopsys ISE-TCAD tools for 
simulation of conventional as well as novel device
Image Processing and Computer Vision Lab
The Image Processing and Computer Vision Lab of the 
Department of Electrical Engineering currently focusses 
on research in the areas of compute vision, image
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

processing, machine learning and multimedia signal 
analysis.
Research Facilities
•
RGB-D Motion Sensor
•
Dell Precision Tower
•
Dell Precision 5820 Tower XCTO
•
Nikon Camera D5600 with 18-55 mm lens and 
accessories
•
Acer 4K Display
•
Netgear Network Attached Storage
Internet of Things (IoT) Laboratory
Internet of Things (IoT) uses physical objects embedded 
with sensors, readout electronics, networking, and 
communication, enabling intelligent data exchange or 
storage between these devices. Within the last decade, 
various commercial IoT products are available in the 
market. These are widely used in applications like smart 
health care and monitoring, autonomous vehicles, 
smart home, smart city applications and others. IoT lab 
encourages interdisciplinary research where different 
departments share the common platform.
Academic activities
This lab is used for research as well as conducting lab 
experiments related to Sensors &IoT lab. For M.Tech. 
Students in Sensors and IoT.
Microelectronics Laboratory
This lab was developed to support the fabrication of 
discrete devices. It is mainly a research laboratory 
focusing on low cost devices and sensors for various 
applications. Currently, various devices such as Organic 
Field-Effect Transistors and Gas Sensors are routinely 
fabricated and characterized. Following is the summary 
of facilities of this laboratory
Facilities
•
Device Fabrication: Mask Aligner, Thermal 
Evaporation System, E-beam Evaporation System, 
Chemical Vapor Deposition System, RF Sputtering,
Atomic layer deposition, Mask Aligner, Fume hoods
•
Characterization:Keithely 4200 SCS, Probe station, 
Gas Sensing Characterization Setup, Hall Effect 
Measurement, Profilometer
•
Sensor and Transducer Design and Simulation Tools
(1) 
CoventorWare® Integrated software suite for 
designing and simulating MEMS sensors and 
actuators. A versatile FEM and BEM based 
tool set, has material properties database, 
creates or imports a 2-D layout and can build 
3D models in conjunction with process flow 
information. Important modules consist of (i) 
Designer - Material Properties Editor, Process 
Editor, Layout Editor, Foundry Design Kits (ii) 
Analyzer Meshing, MemElectro, MemMech, 
CoSolve, Parametric Simulations, Visualization 
(iii) Advanced Solvers and Reduced Order 
Modelling
(2) 
Mentor Graphics HEP Software : Tanner MEMS 
design (layout editor) and IC Design suite 
consist of Tanner L-Edit, S-Edit, T-spice , Eldo 
and Nitro SoC etc.
Microgrid and Real-time Simulator 
Laboratory
The laboratory carries out research in DC Microgrid, 
Control Issues in Power Converters, and Electric 
Vehicles. The lab is also hosting many projects in 
the fields of Power Electronics, Electric Vehicle and 
Control. The laboratory has a Real Time simulator and 
also has a test bench for Microgrid Research. The 
Microgrid test bench is created in the lab and has 
capability to test complex control algorithms and power 
sharing schemes. Electric Vehicle is another domain of 
interest and the laboratory has resources to research 
on controllers for Electric Two wheelers and Three 
Wheelers.
Facilities
•
Yokogawa WT3000 power analyzer (01)
•
Semikron power boost converters (02)
•
Hameg programmable LCR bridge (01)
•
Xytronic LF2000 High-power soldering station
•
Chroma DC Electronic load (01)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

•
DC Programmable power supply (02)
•
TMS320F38335 experiment kit boards (02)
•
Opal-RT Real-ime Simulator
•
High power rectifier unit
•
DSO 1022A oscilloscope 200MHz
•
Tektronix afg3021b Function generator
•

Tektronix DPO4104b 1GHz four-channel 
oscilloscope
•
Two voltage source inverters
•
Two low voltage high current induction motors
•
One motor generator set
•
Battery bank
Power Electronics & Drives Laboratory
This lab is dedicated to the study of power electronics 
and electrical drives. Research and teaching activities 
are carried out in the following areas:
•
Study the performance of various power electronic 
converter
•
Triggering circuit for SCR firing
•
Study the operation of single-phase and three-
phase converters
•
Study of AC voltage regulators
•
Study of zero voltage switching
•
Study of zero current switching
•
Performance of DSP based 3-ph Induction Motor 
drive using SCR
•
Performance of DSP based 3-ph Induction Motor 
drive using IGBT
Facilities
•

High Precision power analyzer –YOKOGAWA 
WT3000
•
DSO- Tektronix 200MHz (DPO 2024)
•

1GHz (DPO 4104B), Function Generator-Tektronix 
AFG 3021B
•
Power Supply: 0-32V, 3A; 0-32, 10A
•
Three-phase inverter drive
•
Three-phase inverter stacks
•
DC-DC converters
•
Differential currents probes
•
Isolation Transformers
•
FPGA training kits
Signal Processing Lab
Research at the Signal Processing Lab are centered 
around Signal Processing, Condition Monitoring, 
Image Processing, Data Compression, Blind Source 
Separation, Artificial Neural Network.
Current Research Themes
1.	
Automatic Modulation Classification
2. Modelling of Complex Networks
3. Automatic Fault Diagnosis in distribution Networks
Research Facilities
•
NI PXI-5652 Signal generator
•
NI PXIe-5450 Arbitrary waveform generator
•
NI PXIe-5601 RF Down-converter
•
NI PXIe-5622 Digitizer
•
NI PXIe-5791 Adapter module
•
NI 8880 Controller
•
USRP 2920
Smart Grid Laboratory
This lab is dedicated to the study of distributed 
generations and their integration to the electrical grid. 
Research work is carried out in the following areas:
•

Integration of solar PV and Wind energy systems 
into the electrical grid
•
Control of distributed generation
•
Integration of distributed FACTS devices
•

Power quality issues in the integration of distributed 
generation
Facilities
•

Solar power generating Experimental Equipment 
Model: KTE 7000SG
•
Wind power plant Model no. EWG 1
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Wireless and Microwave Laboratory
This lab is dedicated to the study of all aspects of 
testing and characterization of wireless communication 
signal. In addition, the lab also also consists of facilities 
dedicated to microwave active and passive devices. 
The research activities conducted in the lab are as 
follows:
•

Design and characterization of Microwave antenna 
and passive circuits (filters, couplers, crossover etc.)
•

Design and characterization of Microwave active 
circuits (LNA, PA etc.)

The lab is also conducted for teaching activities 
which are as follows:
•

Contemporary Communication System Laboratory
•
Communications Engineering Lab.
•
ENA Series Network Analyzer (300KHz-20GHz).
•
ENA Series Network Analyzer (100KHz-4.5GHz).
•
Power Meter.
•
Triple Output DC Power Supply.
•
Function Waveform Generator (300MHz).
•
EXA Signal Analyzer (9KHz-3.6GHz).
•
EXA Signal Analyzer (9KHz-26.5GHz).
•
MXG Analog Signal Generator (100KHz-3GHz).
•
MXG Analog Signal Generator (100KHz-20GHz).
•
ME1000 RF Training Kit(Tx-Rx).
•
ME1300 Antenna Training Kit(Tx-Rx).
•
ME1100 Digital RF Communication Kit.
•
VSA89600 Software(1 set for 15 users).
•
Digital Phosphor Oscilloscope (200MHz).
•

Single Channel Arbitrary/Function Generator 
(25MHz).
•

NI PXIe-1075 Chassis: NI PXIe-8108 Controller, NI 
PXIe-5652, NI PXIe-5601, NI PXIe-5622, NI PXIe-
5450, NI PXIe-5611, NI PXI-5600, NI PXI-5610, 
NI PXI-5441, NI PXIe-5641R, NI PXI-5691, NI PXI-
5652, NI Developer suit for Lab-view DS1 2011, NI 
Modulation Tool kit 4.3, NI Modulation Tool kit 4.1, NI
Modulation Tool kit 4.2.1, NI Spectral Measurement 
2.5.1.
•
Logic Analyzer TLA6404.
Wireless Communications 
and Navigation Lab
The Wireless Communications and Navigation 
Lab’s research spans several aspects of wireless 
communications and communication signal processing, 
with the aim to provide for theoretical breakthroughs 
as well as practical solutions to problems pertaining 
to futuristic communication networks. In particular, 
the focus is on the information theoretic performance 
analysis of wireless communication systems including 
multiuser communication networks, cooperative 
communication networks, MIMO communication 
systems, and algorithmic solutions to satellite based 
navigation receiver design.
Our research is highly conducive to multi-disciplinary 
collaboration; it builds on a diverse set of theoretical 
breakthroughs in information theory, communication 
theory, large deviation theory, matrix theory, linear 
algebra, and coding theory.
Facilities
•

Computing Facility- In addition to the high 
performance computation facility of the institute the 
lab has several workstations for system simulation 
studies.
•

Testbed Facility -2x2 Multiple Input Multiple Output 
Transceiver Setup, NI USRP units, GNSS Satellite 
Signal Acquisition Setup, NavIC Software Signal 
Simulator and Receiver, IoT Network Setup
•
Equipment -Data Acquisition Unit, Logic Analyzer
Lightwave Technology Laboratory
The Lightwave Technology Lab (LTL) is focussed on 
experiments involving optical wireless communication 
and guided wave optical communication. The current 
research work includes novel optical communication 
paradigms targeting 5G and beyond communications 
such as passive optical networks links, radio over fiber
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

1. EE UG Orientation 03 December 2021
2. IEEE Nanotechnology Council SBC IITJ Inaugural Talk 29 November 2021
3. Invited Talk by Prof Chandra Shekhar (EE Society and EEN2010 Introduction to
Profession) 08 September 2021
4. Departmental PG Orientation 22 July 2021
5. AICTE Training and Learning (ATAL) Short-term Course on Nano Sensors
(05 - 09 July 2021) 05 July 2021
6. Departmental Farewell for Class of 2021! 12 June 2021
(RoF), radio over free space optics (RoFSO) with orbital 
angular momentum (OAM) generation, modulation, 
transmission and detection. Moreover, the lab is also 
being used for modelling waveguide based passive 
structures for their applications in passive optical 
networks. The research work in the lab will also be 
expanded to include experiments to study nonlinear 
effects in optical fibers, particularly targeting the issues 
in high-speed optical communications.
List of equipments/facilities
•
Optical Table with Vibration isolation
•
Laser Sources
•
1550 nm DFB source
•
Optical Detector
•
Optical Power Meter
•
CCD Camera
•
Fusion Splicing Machine
•
EDFA
•
Bit error rate tester (BERT)
•
Power Attenuator
•
Digital Microscope
•

Precision Optics such as mirrors, objective lens, 
filters, etc.
•
Single and Multimode Optical Fiber Spool
•
Precision Optomechanics
Microwave Circuits and Systems (MCS) Lab
The group mainly focuses on design of active and 
passive components for modern transceivers. Along 
with research in high frequency circuit design, the 
group aims to improve the quality of understanding in 
microwave engineering through various practical as 
well as computer aided simulations.
•
Anechoic Chamber Box
•
Horn Antenna
•
Microwave Circuits
•
Soldering Station
•
Microwave Bench
•
Soldering oven
Outreach activities
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

1	
Kumar, A., Khan, M. A., & Kumar, M. (2022). Recent 
advances in UV photodetectors based on 2D 
materials: A review. Journal of Physics D: Applied 
Physics, 55(13). ISSN: 00223727. https://doi.
org/10.1088/1361-6463/ac33d7
2	
Kumar, D., Kumar, R., Kumar, M., & Kumar, P. (2022). 
Coupled excitonic quasiparticle-electron-phonon 
and interlayer coupling in vertically and horizontally 
aligned MoS2. Journal of Materials Chemistry C, 
10(14), 5684–5692. ISSN: 20507534. https://doi.
org/10.1039/d2tc00266c
3	
Bhati, V. S., Takhar, V., Raliya, R., Kumar, M., 
& Banerjee, R. (2022). Recent advances in 
g-C3N4based gas sensors for the detection of toxic 
and flammable gases: A review. Nano Express, 
3(1). ISSN: 2632959X. https://doi.org/10.1088/2632-
959X/ac477b
4	
Kumar, D., Kumar, V., Kumar, R., Kumar, M., & Kumar, 
P. (2022). Electron-phonon coupling, thermal 
expansion coefficient, resonance effect, and 
phonon dynamics in high-quality CVD-grown 
monolayer and bilayer MoSe2. Physical Review 
B, 105(8). ISSN: 24699950. https://doi.org/10.1103/
PhysRevB.105.085419
5	
Seesaard, T., Goel, N., Kumar, M., & Wongchoosuk, 
C. (2022). Advances in gas sensors and 
electronic nose technologies for agricultural 
cycle applications. Computers and Electronics 
in Agriculture, 193. ISSN: 01681699. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.compag.2021.106673
6	
Narwaria, M. (2022). Does explainable machine 
learning uncover the black box in vision 
applications? Image and Vision Computing, 
118. ISSN: 02628856. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
imavis.2021.104353
7	
Verma, G. D., Mathur, A., Ai, Y., & Cheffena, M. 
(2022). Mixed Dual-Hop IRS-Assisted FSO-RF 
Communication System With H-ARQ Protocols. 
IEEE Communications Letters, 26(2), 384–
388. ISSN: 10897798. https://doi.org/10.1109/
LCOMM.2021.3129594
8	
Khan, A. A., Kahar, M., & Mandal, M. K. (2022). A 
modified microstrip to empty substrate integrated 
waveguide transition. International Journal of RF 
and Microwave Computer-Aided Engineering, 
32(2). ISSN: 10964290. https://doi.org/10.1002/
mmce.22990
9	
Lou, C., Lei, G., Liu, X., Xie, J., Li, Z., Zheng, W., 
Goel, N., Kumar, M., Zhang, J. (2022). Design 
and optimization strategies of metal oxide 
semiconductor nanostructures for advanced 
formaldehyde sensors. Coordination Chemistry 
Reviews, 452. ISSN: 00108545. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.ccr.2021.214280
10 Chaturvedi, S., Fulwani, D., & Patel, D. (2022). 
Dynamic Virtual Impedance-Based Second-Order 
Ripple Regulation in DC Microgrids. IEEE Journal of 
Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics, 
10(1), 1075–1083. ISSN: 21686777. https://doi.
org/10.1109/JESTPE.2021.3076474
11	
Raj, A., Shah, N. A., & Tiwari, A. K. (2022). A 
novel approach for fundus image enhancement. 
Biomedical Signal Processing and Control, 71. ISSN: 
17468094. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bspc.2021.103208
12 Chawda, G. S., & Shaik, A. G. (2022). Enhancement 
of Wind Energy Penetration Levels in Rural Grid 
Using ADALINE-LMS Controlled Distribution Static 
Compensator. IEEE Transactions on Sustainable 
Energy, 13(1), 135–145. ISSN: 19493029. https://doi.
org/10.1109/TSTE.2021.3105423
13 Nikolskaya, A. A., Korolev, D. S., Mikhaylov, A. N., 
Mullagaliev, T. D., Chigirinsky, Yu. I., Belov, A. I., … 
Tetelbaum, D. I. (2021). Non-equilibrium methods 
for synthesis and modification of gallium oxide. 
In Averkiev N.S., Poniaev S.A., & Sokolovskii G.S. 
(Eds.), J. Phys. Conf. Ser. (Vol. 2103). IOP Publishing 
Ltd. ISBN: 17426588. https://doi.org/10.1088/1742-
6596/2103/1/012062
14 Chaturvedi, S., Makineni, R. R., Fulwani, D. M., & 
Yadav, S. K. (2021). Regulation of Electric Vehicle 
Speed Oscillations Due to Uneven Drive Surfaces 
Using ISMDTC. IEEE Transactions on Vehicular
Publications
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

15 Bajpai, A., Rangra, K., & Bansal, D. (2021). 
Optimization of Thick Photoresist for Uniform 
Thickness in RF MEMS Applications. Journal of 
Electronic Materials, 50(12), 7143–7149. ISSN: 
03615235. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11664-021-
09225-8
16 Sharf, M., Jain, A., & Zelazo, D. (2021). Geometric 
Method for Passivation and Cooperative Control of 
Equilibrium-Independent Passive-Short Systems. 
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 66(12), 
5877–5892. ISSN: 00189286. https://doi.org/10.1109/
TAC.2020.3043390
17 Kumar, A., Kumar, P., Bajpai, A., Rangra, K., & 
Bansal, D. (2021). Analytical Modeling, Design, and 
Performance Analysis of a Micromirror for Space-
Based Multiobject Spectroscopy. IEEE Transactions 
on Electron Devices, 68(11), 5773–5778. ISSN: 
00189383. https://doi.org/10.1109/TED.2021.3113261
18 Narwaria, M., & Tatu, A. (2021). Interval-Based Least 
Squares for Uncertainty-Aware Learning in Human-
Centric Multimedia Systems. IEEE Transactions 
on Neural Networks and Learning Systems, 32(11), 
5241–5246. ISSN: 2162237X. https://doi.org/10.1109/
TNNLS.2020.3025834
19 Nigam, A., Sharma, N., Tripathy, S., & Kumar, M. 
(2021). Development of semiconductor based heavy 
metal ion sensors for water analysis: A review. 
Sensors and Actuators, A: Physical, 330. ISSN: 
09244247. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sna.2021.112879
20 Kanani, A., Vaidya, S., & Agarwal, H. (2021). 
LightFPGA: Scalable and Automated FPGA 
Acceleration of LightGBM for Machine Learning 
Applications. Int. Symp. VLSI Des. Test, VDAT. 
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 
Inc. ISBN: 9781665419925. https://doi.org/10.1109/
VDAT53777.2021.9600900
21 Goel, N., Kumar, R., & Kumar, M. (2021). 
Visualization of band offsets at few-layer MoS2/
Ge heterojunction. Nanotechnology, 32(37). ISSN: 
09574484. https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-6528/
ac0932
22 Goel, N., & Kumar, M. (2021). 2D Materials for 
Terahertz Application. Nano Express, 2(3). ISSN: 
2632959X. https://doi.org/10.1088/2632-959X/
ac0d56
23 Rajamani, S., & Kumar, M. (2021). Spectrum Selective 
Narrowband Optical Detectors. Resonance, 26(9), 
1211–1220. ISSN: 09718044. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s12045-021-1223-z
24 Souilem, M., Tripathi, J. N., Melicio, R., Dghais, W., 
Belgacem, H., & Rodrigues, E. M. G. (2021). Neural-
network based modeling of I/O buffer predriver 
under power/ground supply voltage variations. 
Sensors, 21(18). ISSN: 14248220. https://doi.
org/10.3390/s21186074
25 Sharma, V. K., Tripathi, J. N., & Shrimali, H. 
(2021). Analysis of power supply noise in AMS 
circuits including the effects of interconnects 
using estimation by inspection method. AEU 
- International Journal of Electronics and 
Communications, 139. ISSN: 14348411. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.aeue.2021.153913
26 Johar, A. K., Sharma, G. K., Kumar, T. B., Varma, 
T., Periasamy, C., Agarwal, A., & Boolchandani, D. 
(2021). Optimization of a Flexible Film Bulk Acoustic 
Resonator-Based Toluene Gas Sensor. Journal 
of Electronic Materials, 50(9), 5387–5395. ISSN: 
03615235. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11664-021-
09059-4
27 Bhargav, H., Vs, V., Kumar, B., & Singh, V. (2021). 
Enhancing Testbench Quality via Genetic Algorithm. 
Midwest Symp Circuits Syst, 2021-August, 652–
656. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 
Inc. ISBN: 15483746; 9781665424615 (ISBN). https://
doi.org/10.1109/MWSCAS47672.2021.9531876
28 Kumar, V., Satapathy, B., Kisku, W., Kaur, A., & Mishra, 
D. (2021). CMOS image sensor with adaptive 
readout scheme for low power applications. 
Midwest Symp Circuits Syst, 2021-August, 766–769. 
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc. 
ISBN: 15483746; 9781665424615 (ISBN). https://doi.
org/10.1109/MWSCAS47672.2021.9531910
29 Satapathy, B., & Kaur, A. (2021). A low kickback 
noise and low power dynamic comparator. Midwest
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Symp Circuits Syst, 2021-August, 146–149. Institute 
of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc. ISBN: 
15483746; 9781665424615 (ISBN). https://doi.
org/10.1109/MWSCAS47672.2021.9531668
30 Bhati, V. S., Kumar, M., & Banerjee, R. (2021). 
Gas sensing performance of 2D nanomaterials/
metal oxide nanocomposites: a review. Journal of 
Materials Chemistry C, 9(28), 8776–8808. ISSN: 
20507534. https://doi.org/10.1039/d1tc01857d
31 Chordia, A., & Tripathi, J. N. (2021). Uncertainty 
Quantification of a CMOS Oscillator using 
Stochastic Collocation Techniques. Jt. IEEE Int. 
Symp. Electromagn. Compat. Signal Power Integr., 
EMC Europe, EMC/SI/PI/EMC Europe, 391–394. 
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc. 
ISBN: 9781665448888. https://doi.org/10.1109/EMC/
SI/PI/EMCEurope52599.2021.9559318
32 Hemaram, S., & Tripathi, J. N. (2021). Metaheuristic 
Optimization of Decoupling Capacitors in a Power 
Delivery Network. Jt. IEEE Int. Symp. Electromagn. 
Compat. Signal Power Integr., EMC Europe, 
EMC/SI/PI/EMC Europe, 554–558. Institute of 
Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc. ISBN: 
9781665448888. https://doi.org/10.1109/EMC/SI/PI/
EMCEurope52599.2021.9559179
33 Khan, M. A., Kumar, A., Zhang, J., & Kumar, M. 
(2021). Recent advances and prospects in reduced 
graphene oxide-based photodetectors. Journal 
of Materials Chemistry C, 9(26), 8129–8157. ISSN: 
20507534. https://doi.org/10.1039/d1tc01306h
34 Rituraj, Tiwari, A., Chaudhury, S., Singh, S., & 
Saurav, S. (2021). Video Classification using 
SlowFast Network via Fuzzy rule. IEEE Int Conf 
Fuzzy Syst, 2021-July. Institute of Electrical and 
Electronics Engineers Inc. ISBN: 10987584; 
9781665444071 (ISBN). https://doi.org/10.1109/
FUZZ45933.2021.9494542
35 Kumar, D., Singh, B., Kumar, R., Kumar, M., & Kumar, 
P. (2021). Davydov splitting, resonance effect and 
phonon dynamics in chemical vapor deposition 
grown layered MoS2. Nanotechnology, 32(28). 
ISSN: 09574484. https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-6528/
abf37b
36 Choi, H., Bhardwaj, A., Yoon, G., & Choi, S. 
(2021). Perceived Hardness of Virtual Surface: 
A Function of Stiffness, Damping, and Contact 
Transient. IEEE World Haptics Conf., WHC, 613–618. 
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 
Inc. ISBN: 9781665418713. https://doi.org/10.1109/
WHC49131.2021.9517263
37 Verma, G. D., & Mathur, A. (2021). Performance 
improvement of FSO communication systems 
using hybrid-ARQ protocols. Applied Optics, 60(19), 
5553–5563. ISSN: 1559128X. https://doi.org/10.1364/
AO.424687
38 Wang, H., Ma, J., Zhang, J., Feng, Y., Vijjapu, M. 
T., Yuvaraja, S., … Huang, J. (2021). Gas sensing 
materials roadmap. Journal of Physics Condensed 
Matter, 33(30). ISSN: 09538984. https://doi.
org/10.1088/1361-648X/abf477
39 Arora, P., Tripathi, J. N., & Shrimali, H. (2021). 
Device Parameter-Based Analytical Modeling of 
Power Supply Induced Jitter in CMOS Inverters. 
IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices, 68(7), 
3268–3275. ISSN: 00189383. https://doi.org/10.1109/
TED.2021.3082106
40 Mahato, A. K., Bharti, D., Varun, I., Saxena, P., 
Raghuwanshi, V., & Tiwari, S. P. (2021). UV assisted 
non-volatile memory behaviour using Copper 
(II) phthalocyanine based organic field-effect 
transistors. Organic Electronics, 94. ISSN: 15661199. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.orgel.2021.106174
41 Saoji, S., Krishna, D., Sanap, V., Nagar, R., & 
Shah, S. V. (2021). Learning-based Approach 
for Estimation of Axis of Rotation for Markerless 
Visual Servoing to Tumbling Object. ACM Int. 
Conf. Proc. Ser. Association for Computing 
Machinery. ISBN: 9781450389716. https://doi.
org/10.1145/3478586.3478639
42 Chaudhary, S., Patel, S. M., Dal, P. N., Joshi, S. 
K., Tripathy, N. S., & Shah, S. V. (2021). Robust 
Control Strategy for Reactionless Manoeuvring 
of a Dual-Arm Space Manipulator. ACM Int. 
Conf. Proc. Ser. Association for Computing 
Machinery. ISBN: 9781450389716. https://doi.
org/10.1145/3478586.3478621
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

43 Raghuwanshi, V., Mahato, A. K., Saxena, P., Rahi, 
S., Konwar, G., & Tiwari, S. P. (2021). Low Voltage 
Organic Field-Effect Transistors with Room 
Temperature Deposited Dielectric Layer. FLEPS 
- IEEE Int. Conf. Flex. Printable Sensors Syst. 
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 
Inc. ISBN: 9781728191737. https://doi.org/10.1109/
FLEPS51544.2021.9469826
44 Rahi, S., Raghuwanshi, V., Saxena, P., Konwar, 
G., & Tiwari, S. P. (2021). Effect of Annealing on 
Low-Voltage Organic Field-Effect Transistors with 
P(VDF-TrFE) Gate Dielectric. FLEPS - IEEE Int. Conf. 
Flex. Printable Sensors Syst. Institute of Electrical 
and Electronics Engineers Inc. ISBN: 9781728191737. 
https://doi.org/10.1109/FLEPS51544.2021.9469854
45 Kisku, W., Kaur, A., & Mishra, D. (2021). On-chip Pixel 
Reconstruction using Simple CNN for Sparsely 
Read CMOS Image Sensor. IEEE Int. Conf. Artif. 
Intell. Circuits Syst., AICAS. Institute of Electrical and 
Electronics Engineers Inc. ISBN: 9781665419130. 
https://doi.org/10.1109/AICAS51828.2021.9458532
46 Aswani, A. R., Kumar, R., Tripathi, J. N., & James, 
A. (2021). Performance of Crossbar based Long 
Short Term Memory with Aging Memristors. 
IEEE Int. Conf. Artif. Intell. Circuits Syst., AICAS. 
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 
Inc. ISBN: 9781665419130. https://doi.org/10.1109/
AICAS51828.2021.9458402
47 Mythili, K., & Narwaria, M. (2021). Assessment 
of Machine Learning-Based AudiovisualQuality 
Predictors:Why Uncertainty Matters. ACM 
Transactions on Multimedia Computing, 
Communications and Applications, 17(2). ISSN: 
15516857. https://doi.org/10.1145/3430376
48 Das, S., Kumar, A., Kumar, A., Singh, J., Jha, R., 
& Kumar, M. (2021). UV Light Detection Using 
Resonance Frequency of Piezoelectric Quartz 
Crystal. IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices, 
68(6), 2791–2795. ISSN: 00189383. https://doi.
org/10.1109/TED.2021.3072351
49 Sahu, A., Kumar, A., & Tiwari, S. P. (2021). Exploration 
of logic gates and multiplexer using doping-free 
bipolar junction transistor. Solid-State Electronics, 
180. ISSN: 00381101. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
sse.2021.107994
50 Mahato, A. K., Bharti, D., Saxena, P., Raghuwanshi, 
V., Varun, I., & Tiwari, S. P. (2021). Influence of 
molecular weight of polymer dielectric on the 
photo-response of solution-processed OFETs. 
Polymer, 224. ISSN: 00323861. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.polymer.2021.123724
51 Chordia, A., Hemaram, S., & Tripathi, J. N. (2021). An 
Automated Framework for Variability Analysis using 
Simulated Annealing. SPI - IEEE Workshop Signal 
Power Integr. Institute of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineers Inc. ISBN: 9781665423885. https://doi.
org/10.1109/SPI52361.2021.9505204
52 Kumar, R., Chordia, A., Aswani, A. R., James, A., 
& Tripathi, J. N. (2021). Uncertainty Quantification 
of Memristor Crossbar Array for Vector Matrix 
Multiplication. SPI - IEEE Workshop Signal Power 
Integr. Institute of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineers Inc. ISBN: 9781665423885. https://doi.
org/10.1109/SPI52361.2021.9505193
53 Narwaria, M. (2021). The Transition from 
White Box to Black Box: Challenges and 
Opportunities in Signal Processing Education. 
IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, 38(3), 163–
173. ISSN: 10535888. https://doi.org/10.1109/
MSP.2021.3050996
54 Nikolskaya, A., Okulich, E., Korolev, D., Stepanov, 
A., Nikolichev, D., Mikhaylov, A., … Gogova, D. 
(2021). Ion implantation in β-Ga2O3: Physics and 
technology. Journal of Vacuum Science and 
Technology A: Vacuum, Surfaces and Films, 39(3). 
ISSN: 07342101. https://doi.org/10.1116/6.0000928
55 Mangal, N. K., & Tiwari, A. K. (2021). A review of 
the evolution of scientific literature on technology-
assisted approaches using RGB-D sensors for 
musculoskeletal health monitoring. Computers in 
Biology and Medicine, 132. ISSN: 00104825. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.compbiomed.2021.104316
56 Dhanekar, S., & Rangra, K. (2021). Wearable 
Dosimeters for Medical and Defence Applications: 
A State of the Art Review. Advanced Materials 
Technologies, 6(5). ISSN: 2365709X. https://doi.
org/10.1002/admt.202000895
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl.
No. Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start Date End Date
1 Visvesvaraya PhD Scholarship
scheme for Electronics & IT (Part-1) Media lab Asia Anil Kumar
Tiwari H2,16,34,188 01-Jan-14 31-Mar-20
2 Special Manpower development
Program for Chips to System
Design (SMDP-C2SD)/ Design of a
Sensor Signal Conditioning System
(I) & Multiprocessor Scheduling
Algorithms using Control Theoretic
Approach (II) DeitY Shree
Prakash
Tiwari H10,43,000 11-Aug-15 30-Nov-21
3 Visvesvaraya PhD Scholarship
scheme for Electronics & IT (Part-2) Media lab Asia Anil Kumar
Tiwari H1,51,70,876 21-Oct-14 31-Mar-21
4 Design and development of NavIC
Receiver MeitY Arun Kumar
Singh H64,55,000 18-Oct-17 25-Jun-22
5 Substrate Integrated Coaxial Line
(SICL) based Circuits and Systems
for millimeter wave application DST Soumava
Mukherjee H35,00,000 20-Sep-17 19-Sep-22
57 Shaik, M., Yadav, S. K., & Shaik, A. G. (2021). An EMD 
and Decision Tree-Based Protection Algorithm for 
the Solar PV Integrated Radial Distribution System. 
IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, 57(3), 
2168–2177. ISSN: 00939994. https://doi.org/10.1109/
TIA.2021.3058618
58 Sikri, A., Mathur, A., Saxena, P., Bhatnagar, M. R., 
& Kaddoum, G. (2021). Reconfigurable Intelligent 
Surface for Mixed FSO-RF Systems with Co-Channel 
Interference. IEEE Communications Letters, 25(5), 
1605–1609. ISSN: 10897798. https://doi.org/10.1109/
LCOMM.2021.3057116
59 Kumar, P., Bansal, D., Kumar, A., Bajpai, A., Mehta, 
K., Ashudeep, Rangra, K., Boolchandani, D. (2021). 
Sacrificial layer optimization for RF MEMS switches. 
Microsystem Technologies, 27(5), 2147–2152. ISSN: 
09467076. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00542-020-
05000-7
60 Krishna, I. S., & Mukherjee, S. (2021). Triple-Mode 
Substrate Integrated Coaxial Resonator Based 
Bandpass Filter Featuring Flexible Transmission
Zeros and Adjustable Bandwidth. IEEE Transactions 
on Circuits and Systems II: Express Briefs, 68(4), 
1223–1227. ISSN: 15497747. https://doi.org/10.1109/
TCSII.2020.3035717
61 Zheng, S., Zhou, J., Agarwal, H., Tang, J., Zhang, H., 
Liu, N., … Hao, Y. (2021). Proposal of Ferroelectric 
Based Electrostatic Doping for Nanoscale Devices. 
IEEE Electron Device Letters, 42(4), 605–608. ISSN: 
07413106. https://doi.org/10.1109/LED.2021.3063126
62 Das, S., Singh, J., & Kumar, M. (2021). Fabrication 
of Fast and Reliable Pulse Laser-Ablated ZnO 
Nanoparticles-Based Formaldehyde Sensor. 
IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices, 68(4), 
1872–1877. ISSN: 00189383. https://doi.org/10.1109/
TED.2021.3058085
63 Sikri, A., Mathur, A., Bhatnagar, M., Kaddoum, 
G., Saxena, P., & Nebhen, J. (2021). Artificial 
Noise Injection-Based Secrecy Improvement 
for FSO Systems. IEEE Photonics Journal, 
13(2). ISSN: 19430655. https://doi.org/10.1109/
JPHOT.2021.3060974
Projects
Sponsored Projects
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl.
No. Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start Date End Date
6 Design and Fabrication of
Germanium on Silicon near
infrared photodetectors DST Saravanan
Rajamani H19,20,000 09-Aug-17 08-Aug-19
7 Young Faculty Research
Fellowship (YFRF) of Visvesvaraya
PhD Scheme MeitY Shree
Prakash
Tiwari H37,00,000 24-Jan-18 22-Jul-23
8 Young Faculty Research
Fellowship (YFRF) of Visvesvaraya
PhD Scheme MeitY Deepak
Fulwani H37,00,000 01-Feb-18 23-Jul-21
9 High Performance Low Voltage
Flexible Organic Field-Effect
Transistors for Circuit and Sensing
Applications SERB Shree
Prakash
Tiwari H51,70,000 15-Sep-18 14-Sep-21
10 Hub and Spoke Consortia for e2W
and e3W Electric Drives-Design
Development of Prototyping of
Advanced IM and Synchronous
Reluctance Drives and Vehicle
Integration for e2W and e3W
Applications DHI(NFTDC) Deepak
Fulwani H24,40,000 31-Aug-18 31-Dec-20
11 Experimental Investigation and
Performance Evaluation of HARQ
Technique for Free-Space Optical
Communication Systems SERB Aashish
Mathur H42,84,100 24-May-19 23-May-22
12 Development of low cost sensors
for monitoring of odours in
ambient air SERB Mahesh
Kumar H1,07,75,664 14-Nov-19 13-Nov-22
13 Development of low cost sensors
for monitoring of odours in
ambient air Envirotech
Instruments
Pvt. Ltd. Mahesh
Kumar H13,00,000 14-Nov-19 31-Mar-23
14 Large area synthesis of
2DMoS2structures for low power
and fast NO2 Gas Sensor SERB Mahesh
Kumar H40,81,000 30-Dec-19 29-Dec-22
15 Design And analysis of multi-
channel incoherent beam
combination system DRDO Arpit
Khandelwal H9,60,000 21-Jan-20 20-Jan-21
16 Design and Development of
Substrate Integrated Waveguide
(SIW) and Empty SIW (ESIW) Based
RF-Microwave Components SERB Arani Ali
Khan H25,43,210 26-Dec-19 25-Jun-22
17 Development of System to Mitigate
Second Order Harmonic Ripple in
AC/DCMicrogrid using Advanced
Control Techniques SERB Deepak
Fulwani H41,47,121 11-Feb-20 10-Feb-23
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl.
No. Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start Date End Date
18 Fundamentals of Photovoltaics MHRD Mahesh
Kumar H5,68,000 23-May-20 28-Jun-20
19 Functional Materials MHRD Mahesh
Kumar H5,68,000 02-Nov-20 11-Dec-20
20 Angel-resolved photoelectron
(ARPES) studies of doped 2DMoS2 UGC-DAE Mahesh
Kumar H1,35,000 05-Mar-20 04-Mar-23
21 Establishment of A1-Based Platform
to Monitor and Identify Smell, Taste
and Key COVID 19 Therapeutic
Hotspots DST-RAKSHAK Amandeep
Kaur H10,00,000 17-Sep-20 16-Mar-22
22 A Programmable CMOS image
sensor for high speed, low power
and low noise applications SERB-SRG Amandeep
Kaur H27,22,060 19-Dec-20 18-Dec-22
23 Nanostructured Metal Oxides
for Efficient Detection of Breast
Cancer SERB-SRS Saakshi
Dhanekar H10,60,007 15-Sep-20 10-Aug-21
24 Secure and Robust Coordination
and Control of Autonomous Multi-
Vehicle Systems with Desired
Constraints SERB Anoop Jain H29,84,870 25-Dec-20 24-Dec-22
25 Object Based Spatial 3D Audio
Rendering for Augmented and
Virtual Reality Applications SERB Manish
Narwaria H25,84,280 22-Dec-20 21-Dec-22
26 Design, fabrication and
characterization of all-fiber
Multimode Interference (MMI)
device for generating highly pure
Laguerre-Gaussian (LG) mode in
free-space SERB Nitin Bhatia H28,72,820 25-Dec-20 24-Dec-22
27 Data-driven Haptic Modeling and
Rendering of Normal Interaction
on Inhomogeneous Viscoelastic
Deformable Objects SERB-SRG Amit
Bhardwaj H33,00,000 23-Dec-20 22-Dec-22
28 Perception-Theoretic Approach
for Quantifying Robustness of
Machine Learning Models SERB-
Mathematical
Research
Impact Centric
Support
(MATRICS) Manish
Narwaria H6,60,000 11-Jan-20 10-Jan-24
29 A Robust Visual Positioning System SERB-SRG Himanshu
Kumar H25,80,670 27-Jan-21 26-Jan-23
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl.
No. Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start Date End Date
30 Ga2O3-based nanomaterials with
controlled defect and impurity
composition for advanced
electronic devices DST-BRICS Mahesh
Kumar H41,98,528 14-Oct-20 13-Oct-23
31 Human perception driven on-chip
compression for power efficient
CMOS image sensors MSME Amandeep
Kaur H15,00,000 31-Mar-21 30-Mar-22
32 Development of AlGaN/GaN high
electron mobility transistor based
robust air pollution sensors SERB Mahesh
Kumar H24,92,192 13-Aug-21 12-Aug-23
33 Telepresence and Teleaction
System for Robot Assisted
Dentistry IHFC, IIT Delhi Amit
Bhardwaj H1,00,00,000 03-Nov-21 02-Nov-24
34 Development of Cognitive Cyber-
Physical System(C2PS) testbed IHUB NTIHAC
Foundation, IIT
Kanpur Sandeep
Kumar Yadav H26,50,240 07-Dec-21 06-Dec-24
35 Reflection Symmetry Based 3D
Surface Reconstruction and
Restoration from Partial Point
Cloud SERB-SRG Rajendra
Nagar H29,71,190 28-Dec-21 27-Dec-23
36 Unified Compact Modeling and
Design of High Voltage MOS
Transistors SERB-SRG Harshit
Agarwal H32,01,000 23-Dec-21 22-Dec-23
37 Design and Development of the
Virtual Museums of Rajasthan
(Alwar, Bundi, Baran, Chittorgarh
and Bharatpur) Department of
Archaeology
and Museum,
Jaipur, Govt. of
Rajasthan Rajendra
Nagar H81,12,000 20-Jan-22 31-Mar-22
38 Design of power delivery
networks using efficient selection
and placement of decoupling
capacitors based on a large scale
component database SERB-SRG Jai Narayan
Tripathi H22,91,760 29-Jan-22 28-Jan-24
39 Reconfigurable Intelligent Surface
based mixed FSO-RF Systems for
beyond 5G/6G Networks SERB-NPDF Aashish
Mathur H19,20,000 01-Feb-22 31-Jan-24
40 Gate All Around Nanosheet
Steep-Slope Transistors for Sub-
2nm Technology Nodes: Physical
Investigation, Compact Modeling
and Device-Circuit Co-Optimization DST-
Nanomission Harshit
Agarwal H45,09,633 09-Mar-22 08-Mar-25
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No Project Title Sponsoring Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start Date End Date
1 Voice and Video
Analytics Phimetrics Telecom VAS
Pvt. Ltd. Himanshu
Kumar H2,00,000 30-Jan-20 30-Aug-20
2 Research Advisory Spanidea Systems
Private Limited Sandeep
Kumar Yadav H11,04,480 01-Feb-21 31-Jan-22
3 Photometry based
Biomedical Analyzers Johari Digital Healthcare
Pvt. Ltd. Arpit
Khandelwal H9,20,000 02-Sep-21 01-Sep-23
4 DoT 5G Hackathon Department of
Telecommunication (DoT) Arun Kumar
Singh H1,00,000 02-Feb-21 02-Feb-22
S.
No Project Title Sponsoring Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start Date End Date
1 64th DAE Solid State
Physics Symposium DAE Mahesh
Kumar H20,00,000 16-Jul-19 22-Dec-19
2 Nano-Sensors AICTE-ATAL Mahesh
Kumar H93,000 01-Jul-21 30-Sep-21
Sl.
No. Project No. Project Title Sponsoring
Agency Category of
Project Principal
Investigator Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start Date Duration /
Expiry Date Date of
Actual
Closure
10 S/UBA/MK/
20200105 Development
of low-cost
portable vent MHRD Sponsored
Research
Project Mahesh Kumar H1,00,000 31-Mar-21 14-Oct-21 21-Sep-21
Consultancy Projects
Other Projects
Closed Projects
The project is about to make a simple, portable, and low-cost ventilator that can be built rapidly and with 
no supply chain disruption. This single-mode continuous, mandatory, closed loop, pressure-controlled, 
time-terminated emergency ventilator adds a layer of safety and flexibility to ventilator shortage situations. 
The COVID-19 ventilator was designed with the following goals in mind: minimizing part count, cost, and 
complexity; reducing or eliminating reliance on scarce parts and resources; ensuring viability in various 
healthcare system around the world; and seeking simple assembly, testing, and use procedures by 
healthcare professionals.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Department of Humanities 
and Social Sciences
Introduction to the department:
The Department of Humanities and Social Sciences 
(HSS) had its inception in the year 2015 with an aim 
to play a significant role in the academic curriculum 
of young engineers. The Department plays a unique 
role in an Institute where the ethos of Science and 
Technology is predominant. Within the coordinates of 
the IIT system, the Department offers a unique scope 
to study and comprehend the critical role of technology 
within a socio-cultural context. With faculty members 
who specialize in diverse disciplines and students from 
a spectrum of backgrounds, the Department provides 
an enriching platform where technical education can be 
complemented with human and social understanding. 
Furthermore, the Department, with its faculty from a 
wide spectrum of diverse disciplines, paves the way 
for learning and discussions on multiple issues ranging 
from the rigor of analysis to engagement with multiple 
cultures, individual struggles, political trends, dialogue
and reasoning. Thus, the Department of HSS facilitates 
a well-rounded and expansive point of view amongst 
the student community. These young minds that come 
in contact with varied knowledge systems are likely to 
evolve into reflective and thinking individuals with refined 
sensibilities. Such a process is expected to enable 
them to appreciate life more creatively, effectively, and 
holistically and contribute in a positive way to the nation 
at large.
The HSS will evolve into the School of Liberal Arts (SoLA) 
in the year 2022 and will shortly launch its own flagship 
programme M.Sc. in Computational Social Sciences from 
the academic year 2022-23.
Faculty details
At present, the HSS has 16 faculty members, 1 staff 
member, and 1 intern. The following are the research 
areas of the department faculty.
Faculty Members
Prof. Sangeeta Sahney
Head of Department & Professor
School of Management & 
Entrepreneurship
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Marketing, Organizational Behaviour, 
Studies in Service Quality
Dr. Alok Ranjan
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Public Health, Universal Health 
Coverage, Health System
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Dr. Ankita Sharma
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Research Interests:Psychology: 
Gerontology, Clinical and Positive 
Psychology
Dr. Dibyadyuti Roy
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Digital Humanities; Media, 
Communication and Cultural Studies; 
Postcolonial Masculinities; Health 
Communication; Science and 
Technology Studies
Dr. K. J. George
Associate Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Philosophy: Applied Ethics, Ethics of 
Technology, Bioethics
Dr. Mayurakshi Chaudhuri
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Sociology/Sociocultural Anthropology: 
Gender Studies; Postcolonial South 
Asia; International and Transnational 
Migrations, Qualitative Research
Dr. Parichay Patra
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Film Studies: Transnational Cinema, 
Indian New Wave, The Global 1968, 
Film Aesthetics
Prof. Chhanda Chakraborti
Visiting Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Bioethics, Public Health Ethics, CSR 
and Business Ethics; Philosophy of 
Mind, Philosophy of Logic
Dr. Farhat Naz
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Natural Resource Management; 
Water Governance; Climate Change, 
Disaster Risk Reduction, Gender
Dr. Malavika Tyagi
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Development Economics; Political 
Economy; Law and Economics; 
Economics of Crime;Empirical 
Economics
Dr. Natasa Thoudam
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Literary Studies, Gender Studies, 
Religious Studies, Comic Studies, 
Digital Humanities (focused on India’s 
Northeast (Manipur)
Dr. Prasanjeet Tribhuvan
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Anthropology of Material Objects, STS 
studies in Sociology, Political Ecology, 
Tourism and Youth Subcultures
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Dr. Ruhi Sonal
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Decision theory, social networks, 
bounded rationality.
Dr. V Hari Narayan
Associate Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Philosophy: Cognitive Studies, 
Evolutionary Theory, Analytic 
Philosophy and Mindfulness
Dr. Suman Dhaka
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Cognitive Neuroscience, Cognitive 
Psychology; Sleep and Cognition
Dr. Vidya Sarveswaran
Associate Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Literature and Environment 
(Ecocriticism), Film and Literature, 
Literatures of the Global South, 
Regional Literatures in Translation, 
American Literature.
The major research groups in the department 
are focused along the following disciplinary/ 
interdisciplinary tracks:
1.	
Literary and cultural studies
2. Philosophy
3. Psychology
4. Sociology
5. Economics 
Academic Programmes
The HSS offers core and elective courses at 
the Bachelors, Masters and Doctoral levels. The 
Department offers Bouquet courses in
•
Literary and cultural studies
•
Philosophy
•
Psychology
•
Sociology
•
Economics
Significant Research 
Achievements
The faculty of the Department have produced 33 
articles in top journals, presented papers in 29
conferences, 2 books, 4 book chapters and 1 technical 
report. Students of the Department have presented 
papers at several international conferences. Faculty 
have also been part of 32 outreach programmes with 
reputed academic institutions as invited speakers, 
resource persons, chairs in conferences and special 
experts. At present, there are 4 ongoing research 
projects worth a total of 83.7 lakhs.
Faculty/ Department Laurels
•

Prof. Sangeeta Sahney, was inducted as a Member 
of the Editorial Advisory Board Research, Journal of 
Textile and Apparel, Emerald.
•

Dr. Alok Ranjan was awarded the Fulbright- Nehru 
Postdoctoral Fellowship at Harvard T. H. Chan 
School of Public Health, 2021-22. Dr Ranjan was 
also the recipient of the Emerging Voices for Global 
Health Fellowship, 2021-2022. Dr. Alok Ranjan 
also joined the editorial board of PLOS ONE as an 
academic editor from November 2021 onwards.
•

Dr. Ankita Sharma was awarded the Moonshot 
project Award 2021, IIT Jodhpur on the idea, 
‘ExPoPsych: Experiencing Positivity at the face 
of Psychological Vulnerability’. (2021). She also 
received the Early Career Scholar award in 
International Wisdom Summit (Jointly supported
Description of Research Groups
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

by Wisdom and Culture Lab-University of Toronto, 
Center for Practical Wisdom-University of Chicago, 
and Social Sciences and Humanities Research 
Council of Canada). (2021)
•

Dr. Farhat Naz obtained a DAAD (German Academic 
Exchange Service) Visiting grant at Georg-August- 
University Göttingen, Germany, for the work on 
India’s Forest Policy and Climate Change (2022). 
She was also awarded IIT Jodhpur Institute Award 
for Research Excellence - Young Researcher 
Award for Outstanding Contribution in Sociological 
Aspects of Water Management (2021)
•

Dr. Natasa Thoudam was presented with an 
honorarium for her art practice paper titled “On 
Pandemic Art Poetry: A Graphic Narrative in the 
Form of a Poem”— at Resilience, Resistance, 
Renovation, and Rebirth Conference 2021 hosted 
by Northern Arizona University (NAU) College of 
Arts and Letters held on 22 to 23 Apr 2021.
•

Dr. Vidya Sarveswaran was awarded the Senior 
Research Award for Research Excellence and 
outstanding contribution to Literature, Environment 
and Film from IIT Jodhpur, August, 2021
•

Dr. Mayurakshi Chaudhari was offered a Research 
fellowship from EUROLAB, GESIS - Leibniz Institute 
for the Social Sciences, Cologne (Germany), for her 
proposed project titled “The ‘Women’s’ Question: 
A Comparative Study of Family and Gendered 
Mobility in Contemporary Germany and India” in 
December 2021.
Student Laurels
Sana Maidullah (supervised by Dr. Ankita Sharma), the 
first PhD student of the Department, who graduated in 
2019, has joined IIM Sirmaur as a faculty member. Abhra 
Paul student of Dr.Vidya Sarveswaran was selected for 
her Post Doctoral Studies at NISER, Bhubaneswar. Her 
work was also published in a journal: Abhra Paul and 
Sarveswaran.V. “Knowing our place: Reading Barbara 
Kingsolver’s work from a bioregional perspective”.
Canadian Journal of American Studies, University of 
Toronto Press (In print).
The Department’s students have also presented their 
work in prestigious international conferences and other 
academic venues. Ishani Vajpayee won a Best Paper
Award for her paper presented at the International 
Conference on Post Covid Challenges on Life and 
Livelihood’ (ICPCC). The details of the conferences are 
given below:
1.	

Sanskriti K and Samyukthah A:. ‘Covering Trauma, 
Memory and the Body’.Suspirias Symposium: 
organised by Queen Mary, University of London, 11 
June 2022.
2. 
Sanskriti K. “Laptops and Mobile Phones in the 
Kitchen: Food-Media Ecology and its confluence 
with the Digital Public Sphere” at the 19 th Annual 
EGSS Conference organized by the McGill 
University April 8-10, 2022
3. 
Sanskriti K.: “Digital Fandom and Streaming 
platforms with special reference to Hallyu” at 
Reconfiguring Digital Spaces: GLO Conference 
2022 organized by Graduate Literature 
Organization at Florida State (April 8-9, 2022)
4. 
Prarthana Saikia, Saikia, P., and Sharma, A. (2021). 
Wise negotiation through exposure to diversity and 
perspective-taking capability. International Wisdom 
Summit 2021 (11-12 October 2021). University of 
Illinois Chicago (Online).
5. 
Prarthana Saikia, Saikia, P., and Sharma, A. (2022). 
Awareness training of common wisdom model 
and its effect on wise negotiation. Psychological 
Science and Wellbeing Conference (4-5 March 
2022). James Cook University Singapore.
6. 
Krishna Singh Bhandari, Bhandari, K.S., Sharma, 
A., Kalra, S., Nirmal, A., Soumik, Soni, R., and Kaur, 
B. (2022). Feasibility and Usability of Experience 
sampling method and typing characteristics 
for smartphone-based emotion detection. 
Psychological Science and Wellbeing Conference 
(4-5 March 2022). James Cook University 
Singapore.
7.	

Krishna Singh Bhandari, Nirmal, A., Kalra, S., Sharma, 
A., Soumik, Soni, R., Kaur, B., Pandey S., and 
Bhandari, K.S., (2022). DeepMood: Identification 
of mood state with keystrokes on smartphone. 
Psychological Science and Wellbeing Conference 
(4-5 March 2022). James Cook University 
Singapore.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

8. 
Pooja Rawat, Rawat, P., Kalra, S., Sriram, Dutta, 
J., Singh, P., Kumar, P., and Sharma, A., (2022). 
Understanding Typing error, delayed error 
identification, and fatigue in online interaction. 
Psychological Science and Wellbeing Conference 
(4-5 March 2022). James Cook University 
Singapore.
9. 
Ishani V, Publication Vajpai, I & Tribhuvan, P. 
Employee Engagement Based Framework for 
Internal Marketing and InTCRM in the IT sector. 
International Conference for Markets and 
Development (ICMD), 16th Biennial Conference of 
ISMD with IIM Trichy. P. 106-113, 16-18, Dec, 2021
Laboratories and equipment
The Department of Humanities and Social Sciences has 
two specialized research facilities, which are described 
below.
a. 
Multimedia language lab: The Language Lab 
located within the Central Library at IIT-Jodhpur is 
designed to provide students with an interactive 
learning environment for practical training in English. 
The lab actively engages students in exercises 
through its collaboration with SANAKO, a company 
that produces specialized software to enhance 
language learning for non-native English speakers. 
ELT instructors in the lab assist students in 
developing effective communication skills based on 
the LSRW model (Listening, Speaking, Reading and 
Writing) through specific activities such as speed 
reading, in-depth reading, declamation, practice for 
better grammar, listening comprehension, round 
table discussion, speech practice with phonetics, 
intonation, voice modulation, pronunciation, and 
exercises to improve writing emails, official letters, 
reports, and essays. The lab also supplements 
classroom learning by enabling students to 
practice independently and in groups with the 
use of state-of-the-art, multimedia equipment. The 
spatial layout and software facilities of the lab are 
designed to maximize immersive language learning. 
Through the lab, the institute’s students and staff 
from disciplines ranging across the engineering, 
sciences, humanities and social sciences have 
access to the best digital tools and hands-on
training towards developing fluency and mastery of 
English.
b. 
Psychology lab: The Psychology laboratory of the 
Department of Humanities and Social Sciences 
is a research facility that works in the domain 
of Positive-Cognitive Psychology focusing on 
‘OPTIMAL HUMAN FUNCTIONING’. The lab’s work 
is oriented towards understanding, intervening 
and promoting the well-being and excellence 
of human beings. At present, research is being 
conducted on Decision-making, Social Cognition, 
and Wisdom. The work revolves around three 
themes: 1) Cognitive Functioning and Psychological 
Tendencies, 2) Skills, ability and well-being 
management in personal, educational and 
organization context, 3) Performance assessment, 
management and enhancement. The Psychology 
Lab provides an understanding of the functioning 
of the brain and the mind and their interrelationship 
with behavior. Some concepts which are of 
specific relevance to engineering students 
include perception (biases and illusions involved), 
decision making (algorithmic and heuristic thinking, 
associated cognitive errors and biases. Other topics 
include student learning (style and strategies), 
memory (mnemonic strategies and distortions), 
identifying strength, emotional intelligence, social 
cognition, etc. The laboratory is equipped with 
tools and software like EEG Neurofeedback 
System, E-prime, Speech recognition software, 
Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, IOWA Gambling Task, 
Stroop Test, SPM, NEOPI-R, Emotional Intelligence 
Questionnaire, and Social Responsiveness Scale 
etc.
Outreach activities
•

Prof. Sangeeta Sahney played the role of Chair 
in several prestigious academic conferences and 
seminars including: (a) the National seminar, “Impact 
of Covid-19 on Indian Industry and Economy”, 
Rajiv Gandhi University, Rono Hills, Doimukh, 
Arunachal Pradesh: on 18 th Nov, 2022 (Online), 
(b) “International Society for Data Sciences &amp; 
Innovation – Global (ISDSI-G)”, IIM Nagpur, 27-12-
2021 to 30-12-2021 (Online), (c)“Indian Academy
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

of Management (INDAM) Conference”, IIM Rohtak, 
07-01-2022 to 09-01-2022 (Online)(d) “Management 
Doctoral Colloquium and VGSOM research 
scholars’ day”, VGSOM, IIT Kharagpur, 02-02-
2022 to 03-02-2022 (Online). She was invited as 
a Resource Person for the following: (a) “Research 
Methodology and Data Analysis” - AICTE STTP at 
the Centre for Management Studies, 16-08-2021 
to 21-08-2021, NERIST, Nirjuli NERIST, Arunachal 
Pradesh (Online); (b) “Sustainable Change 
Management in Technical Institutes for NEP – 
2020 Implementation”, ATAL FDP at Government 
Engineering College, 23-08-2021 to 27-08-2021, 
Bilaspur, Government Engineering College, Bilaspur
•

Dr. Alok Ranjan gave an Invited talk on “India’s 
diseases burden and the importance of a healthy 
lifestyle” at Workshop held on Development of 
Strategic Interventions through Communication 
and Science Media for Enforcing Sustainable 
and Healthy Lifestyles Among School Children, 
Teachers, and Women, by IIT-Dhanbad; 15-19 July 
2021. He also gave an invited talk on “Progress 
towards universal health coverage (UHC): a district 
health perspective”, at the Department of Global 
Health and Population, Harvard T. H. Chan School 
of Public Health, 19th August, 2022, Boston, US.
•

Dr. Ankita Sharma delivered a number of lectures 
at prominent academic institutions and also served 
as a resource person. These are as follows: 
(a) ‘Monitoring mental health of students. Atal 
FDP organized by MBM Engineering College, 
Jodhpur (7/9/2021) (b)‘Digital Wellbeing of Elderly’ 
organized by Senior Citizens Division, National 
Institute of Social Defence, Ministry of Social 
Justice and Empowerment (20 August, 2021) 
(c) ‘Monitoring mental health and physical health 
for all. AICTE Atal FDP organized by PDPM IIIT 
Design and Manufacturing, Jabalpur (24August, 
2021) (d) Qualitative and Quantitative Research 
Methodology, AMPGC, BHU (10 March, 2022) and 
(e) ‘“Autodidactic or Vicarious learning about Mental 
Health”. “Jai Narain Vyas University, Jodhpur under 
the Flagship of Rajiv Gandhi National Institute Of 
Youth Development” (13 March, 2022)
•

Dr. Natasa Thoudam delivered the invited Plenary 
lecture “Gendered Spaces and Gendered Violence:
Towards an Interrogation of the Concept of 
Caste in Devala Mutum’s ‘Thaningla’ and Hoihnu 
Hauzel’s Essential North-East Cookbook”—at the 
International Conference on “Cartographies of 
Gender Based Violence: Literary Reflections from 
South Asia and Beyond” organized by IIT Patna 
held on 12 and 13 March 2022 .
•

Dr. Ruhi Sonal was an invited speaker at the 
Department of Economics Seminar Series at 
Shiv Nadar university, September 24, 2021. She 
also gave an invited seminar, “Sequential entry 
and perfect equilibrium” at CDE Seminar series, 
Delhi School of Economics on January 13, 2022. 
She gave an Invited lecture on Decision Theory 
at Research Cell, Delhi School of Economics on 
February 26, 2022.
•

Dr. Suman Dhaka gave an Invited talk on “ Brain 
Imaging Techniques and Their Applications” 
workshop on scientific sophisticated instruments 
through the Synergistic Training program Utilizing 
the Scientific and Technological Infrastructure 
(STUTI) supported by DST (9 August 2022).
•

Dr. V. Harinarayan gave an Invited talk on “Sensory 
Motor approach to consciousness” on World 
Philosophy Day on 2 June 2021 organized by 
Panjab University. He also gave an invited talk on 
“Epistemic Justice and Episodic Self” as part of 
ICPR study circle on 4 February 2022 at SMVDU 
University, Jammu.
•

Dr. Parichay Patra gave an invited talk ‘Death, an 
Imposter, and the Maiden: Pyaasa beyond the 
Borders’ delivered at the webinar ‘A Response 
to Crises: Literature, Film and Culture of the 21st 
Century’, organized by Deshbandhu Mahavidyalay, 
Kazi Nazrul University, West Bengal, on June 24, 
2021. He delivered the Plenary Address entitled 
‘Crisis and Beyond: India’s Latin America in the Long 
1960s’ in International Graduate Conference on Art 
& Literature in Conflict Zones, Centre of Spanish, 
Portuguese, Italian and Latin American Studies, 
Jawaharlal Nehru University, India, October 2021. 
He also spoke on “Solanas and India-Latin America 
Cinematic Links’’ in a panel on Fernando Solanas at 
XII Jornadas de Historia, Arte y Política, Universidad 
Nacional del Centro de la Provincia de Buenos 
Aires (UNICEN), Argentina, June 2021
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

•

Dr. Farhat Naz was an invited speaker at the ISTR 
PANEL DISCUSSION on ‘Responding to Crises: 
Civil Society Experiences in Different Asia-Pacific 
Regimes’. She was also an invited speaker on 
the topic of ‘Academic Integrity’ at the 6th Faculty 
Development Program, at UGC-HRDC (University 
Grant Commission-Human Resource Development 
Center). She delivered a talk at the CIPSH 
International Academy on Chinese Cultures and 
Global Humanities Seminar on ‘Global Challenges 
and Global Ethics in a time of Pandemic and Climate 
Change’ 2021.
•

Dr. Prasanjeet Tribhuvan gave a talk ‘Knowing the 
Unknown: Curious Case of Cannabis’ at Research 
Majlis, the Research Colloquium of Jindal Global 
University, Sonepat on 30 September, 2021. He also 
gave a talk ‘Looking at Cannabis Policy through 
Assemblages’ at the Research Colloquium, Delhi 
School of Economics, University of Delhi, March 25, 
2022.
•

He also served as a consultant on an audit project 
of Environmental Resource Management (ERM) for 
the study of local communities and their interaction 
with The Great Indian Bustards.
•

Dr. Malvika Tyagi was an invited seminar 
talk “Economic Approach to Crime, Law and 
Deterrence, at GSL University, Ahmedabad, 1 
February 2022
Reporting Year’s Publication Records
The following are the details of faculty publications.
i. Prof. Sangeeta Sahney
Journal Publications
1.	

Dutta, V. and Sahney, S. (2022), “Relation of 
Principal Instructional Leadership, School 
Climate, Teacher Job Performance, and 
Student Achievement”, Journal of Educational 
Administration,Vol. 60, No. 2, pp. 148-166, Emerald 
(ABDC: B) DOI 10.1108/JEA-01-2021-0010
2. 
Arora, S., Sahney, S. and Pradhan, D. (2022), 
“Potential Benefits and Descriptive Norms on 
Webrooming: Applying an Extended Model of 
Goal-Directed Behaviour”, International Journal of 
Retail and Distribution Management Vol. 50, No.
3, pp. 377-397, Emerald (ABDC: A) . DOI 10.1108/
IJRDM-10-2020-0417
3. 
Ray, S.K. and Sahney, S. (2021), “Personal Cultural 
Orientation and Green Purchase Intention: A Case 
of Electric Two-wheelers in India”, Earlycite, Journal 
of Asia Business Studies, Emerald (ABDC: C) .DOI 
10.1108/JABS-06-2020-0220
4. 
Saha, M.D. and Sahney, S. (2022), Exploring the 
relationships between Socialization Agents, 
Social Media Communication, Online Shopping 
Experience, and Pre-Purchase Search: A Moderated 
Model, Internet Research, Vol. 32, No. 2, pp. 536-
567, Emerald (ABDC: A) .DOI 10.1108/INTR-08-2020-
0472
Conferences
5. 
Aparna, S.M. and Sahney, S.,” Organizational 
Learning and Resilience: The Role of Creative 
Problem-Solving Capacity and Knowledge 
Leakage”, IDSI-Global International Conference on 
Leading Business in a FLUID World, IIM, Nagpur, 
December 27-30, 2021.
6. 
Aparna, S.M. and Sahney, S., “A Three-Way 
Interaction Model of Research Output: Investigating 
the Role of Age, Technological Aids and Knowledge 
Sharing”, 11th edition of Conference on Excellence 
in Research and Education (CERE), at the Indian 
Institute of Management Indore, during 18th-20th 
June 2021.
ii. Dr. Alok Ranjan
Journal Publications
1.	

Ranjan, A. COVID-1. (2021): A wake-up call for health 
system strengthening in India. TechScape: The 
Science, Technology and Education Journal of IIT 
Jodhpur.
2. 
Garg, S., Tripathi, N., Ranjan, A., & Bebarta, K. K. 
(2021). Comparing the average cost of outpatient 
care of public and for-profit private providers in 
India. BMC health services research, 21(1), 1-9.https://
doi.org/10.1186/s12913-021-06777-7
3. 
Meher SR, Ranjan A, Shukla P, Atram Y. Effect of 
COVID-19 lockdown on the livelihood of street 
vendors in Maharashtra, India. Int J Community
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Med Public Health 2021;8:5297-303. https://dx.doi.
org/10.18203/2394-6040.ijcmph20214263
4. 
Vaidyanathan, G., VR, M., Dash, U., Ranjan, A., Iyer, 
H., Chokshi, M., ... & Nair, A. (2022). Innovations 
in Primary Healthcare: A Review of Initiatives to 
Promote Maternal Health in Tamil Nadu. Journal 
of Health Management, 24(1), 22-30. https://doi.
org/10.1177%2F09720634221078697
5. 
Ansari S., Ranjan A. (2022). Towards an equitable 
and universal health coverage amidst COVID-19 
pandemic: learnings from 75th Round National 
Sample Survey, 2017-18. Social Action. No 1, Vol:72. 
(http://isidelhi.org.in/ckfinder/userfiles/files/File%20
11/SA%20JAN-MAR%202022%20(for%20web).pdf)
6. 
Ranjan, A. , Crasta, J. Healthcare utilization and 
financial protection among those with mental 
disorders in India: Insights from the 75th round 
of the National Sample Survey, 10 March 2022, 
PREPRINT (Version 1) available at Research Square 
[https://doi.org/10.21203/rs.3.rs-1409762/v1]
7.	

V R Muraleedharan, Umakant Dash, Alok Ranjan, 
Rajasulochana S R. “Innovations in maternal and 
child health services in Tamil Nadu” IHSC. no:5 
(2021): 1 (Technical Report)
8. 
Sundararaman, T., Ranjan, A., Rajendran, P., & Ahuja, 
S. (2022). Chapter 4: India and the World: Response 
to the COVID-19 Pandemic (pp. 77–106). (Book 
Chapter)
Conferences
9. 
Ranjan, A. ‘Informal Health Care Provider in India’ 
Emerging Voices for Global Health Fellowship at 
Mohammed bin Rashid School of Government,UAE, 
November 202
iii. Dr. Ankita Sharma
Journal Publications
1.	

Sharma, A. & Sharma, A. (2021). Beyond Exchange 
Relationship: Exploring the Link Between 
Distributive Justice, Job Involvement, And 
Citizenship Behavior. The Journal of Behavioral 
Science, 16(3), 123-135.
2. 
Kaman, S., Sharma, A., & Banerjee, R. (2021). 
Associativity between COVID-19 Pandemic and 
Serious Mental Illness: Rapid Systematic Review 
within Salutogenesis Model for Public Health 
Management. Published on psycharxiv.com. DOI: 
10.31234/osf.io/mgj45 (Pre print)
3. 
Sharma, A. & Sharma, A. (2021). Efficacy of role and 
perceived organizational support as contributory 
factors of organizational commitments. Pacific 
Business Review International, 13(11), 88-96. (WoS)
4. 
Sharma, A. & Sharma, A. (2021). What doesn’t break 
you makes you stronger: An experimental validation 
of personal wisdom development through regret 
handling and personality dispositions. Journal of 
Higher Education Theory and Practice, 21(8), 99-114. 
DOI: https://doi.org/10.33423/jhetp.v21i8.4508
5. 
Sharma, A., & Sharma, A. (2021). Turnover Intention 
and Procrastination: Causal Contribution of 
Work-Life (Im) Balance. Journal of Contemporary 
Issues in Business and Government, 27(2), 1891-
1901. (ABDC, WoS) DOI: https://doi.org/10.47750/
cibg.2021.27.02.199
6. 
Kaman, S., Sharma, A., & Banerjee, R. (2022). 
Associativity between COVID-19 Pandemic and 
Serious Mental Illness: Rapid Systematic Review 
within Salutogenesis Model for Public Health 
Management. Current Psychiatric Research and 
Review. 10.31234/osf.io/mgj45.
Conferences
7.	

Sharma, A. and Sharma, A. (2021). Translational 
relation of wisdom and transformational leadership: 
Exploring conceptualization and predictions. 
International Wisdom Summit 2021 (11-12 October 
2021). University of Illinois Chicago (Online).
8. 
Saikia, P., and Sharma, A. (2021). Wise negotiation 
through exposure to diversity and perspective-
taking capability. International Wisdom Summit 2021 
(11-12 October 2021). University of Illinois Chicago 
(Online).
9. 
Bhandari, K.S., Sharma, A., Kalra, S., Nirmal, A., 
Soumik, Soni, R., and Kaur, B. (2022). Feasibility and 
Usability of Experience sampling method and typing 
characteristics for smartphone-based emotion
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

detection. Psychological Science and Wellbeing 
Conference (4-5 March 2022). James Cook 
University Singapore.
10. 
Kaman, S., and Sharma, A., (2022). Neural 
Correlates of Non-Verbal Response and Wisdom. 
Psychological Science and Wellbeing Conference 
(4-5 March 2022). James Cook University 
Singapore.
11. 
Nirmal, A., Kalra, S., Sharma, A., Soumik, Soni, R., 
Kaur, B., Pandey S., and Bhandari, K.S., (2022). 
DeepMood: Identification of mood state with 
keystrokes on smartphone. Psychological Science 
and Wellbeing Conference (4-5 March 2022). 
James Cook University Singapore.
12. 
Rawat, P., Kalra, S., Sriram, Dutta, J., Singh, P., Kumar, 
P., and Sharma, A., (2022). Understanding Typing 
error, delayed error identification, and fatigue in 
online interaction. Psychological Science and 
Wellbeing Conference (4-5 March 2022). James 
Cook University Singapore.
13. 
Saikia, P., and Sharma, A. (2022). Awareness 
training of common wisdom model and its effect 
on wise negotiation. Psychological Science and 
Wellbeing Conference (4-5 March 2022). James 
Cook University Singapore.
iv. Prof. Chhanda Chakraborti
Journal Publications
1.	

Dutta, D., Chakraborti, C.. (2021). Does India’s 
Menstrual Hygiene Management Scheme exclude 
the disabled? Indian Journal of Medical Ethics. 2021 
Oct;-(-):1-4. DOI: 10.20529/ijme.2021.081.
v. Dr. Farhat Naz
Journal Publications
1.	

Kurnio, H., Fekete, A., Naz, F., Jüpner, R. & Norf, 
C. 2021. ‘Resilience Learning and Indigenous 
Knowledge of Earthquake Risk in Indonesia,’ 
International Journal of Disaster Risk Reduction, Vol. 
62, pp.1-11 (10.1016/j.ijdrr.2021.102423)
2. 
Naz, F. 2021. ‘Editorial: ‘Landscape of Sanitation 
in India: Reflections on Swachhta’, Special Issue: 
Indian Anthropologist, Vol.51 No.2, 1-6 http://
indiananthro.in/IA2021-
3. 
Naz, F. & George, K. J. 2021.Ethics, Professional 
Life, and the New Curriculum of IITJ (co-author: 
K.J George); Science and Education Magazine 
TechSpace: IITJ, Vol.1, Issue 3. https://iitj.ac.in/
techscape/
4. 
Naz, F. & George, K. J.. 2021. Climate Change, 
Gender Vulnerability, and Disaster: Viewpoint on 
the Himalayan Region, Eastern Anthropologist 74(4): 
485-501.
5. 
George, K. J. & Naz. F. 2021. ‘Water, Sanitation, and 
the Cry of the Excluded,’ Special Issue: Landscape 
of Sanitation in India: Reflections on Swachhta, 
Indian Anthropologist, (co-author: Dr. Farhat Naz), 
Vol.51 No.2, 7- 21 (http://indiananthro.in/IA2021-)
Conferences
1.	

Naz, F. ‘Cross-road of Development: Climate 
Change, Water-Induced Disasters and the Urgency 
of Foresighted Policies’ at the International Virtual 
Conference ‘Un/Predictable Environments: Politics, 
Ecology, Agency’ , 20- 21 May, 2021 University of 
British Columbia (Canada)
2. 
Naz, F. ‘Hype and Hope of Sustainable Forest 
Management: A Story from Post-Colonial Forest 
Policy in India’ at IUAES-WAU World Anthropology 
Pre-Congress 26 February, 2022; IITJ& Guelph 
University, Ontario
vi. Dr. K. George
Journal Publications
1.	

George K.J. 2021. ‘Kerala Model Development: 
A Philosophical Analysis. Mathavum Chinthayum 
101(3): 40-55
2. 
George, K. J. & Naz. F. 2021. ‘Water, Sanitation, and 
the Cry of the Excluded,’ Special Issue: Landscape 
of Sanitation in India: Reflections on Swachhta, 
Indian Anthropologist, (co-author: Dr. Farhat Naz), 
Vol.51 No.2, 7- 21
3. 
Naz, F. & George, K. J. 2021.Ethics, Professional 
Life, and the New Curriculum of IITJ (co-author: 
K.J George); Science and Education Magazine 
TechSpace: IITJ, Vol.1, Issue 3.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

4. 
Naz, F. & George, K. J.. 2021. Climate Change, 
Gender Vulnerability, and Disaster: Viewpoint on 
the Himalayan Region, Eastern Anthropologist 74(4): 
485-501.
Conferences
1.	

George, K. J. ‘Climate Justice: Lessons from Recent 
Disasters and Covid-19 Pandemic,’ Paper presented 
in the international conference organized by the 
Canadian Association for the Study of International 
Development (CASID); 17-19 May 2022.
2. 
George, K. J. ‘Responding to Crises: Civil Society 
Experiences in Different Asia-Pacific Regimes: The 
case of the state Kerala in India” Paper presented in 
the webinar organized by the International Society 
for Third Sector Research (ISTR); 23 February 2022.
3. 
George, K. J. “Climate Change, Vanishing 
Himalayan Glaciers, and Global Ethical Concerns”, 
paper presented in the second CIPSH international 
seminar on Global Challenges in a Time of 
Pandemic and Climate Change, organized by 
the Union Academique Internationale (UAI)in 
collaboration with the Stockholm China Centre, 
Institute for Security and Development Policy, 
Stockholm; 6 December 2021.
vii. Dr. Hari Narayanan
Journal Publications
1.	

Akhil Singh, Hari Narayanan V “Embodied 
Education: A Pathway towards more integrated 
Learning” Contemporary Education Dialogue,Vol 18, 
Issue 2 , 2021 pp 202-225, https://doi.org/10.5840/
bjp20211314
2. 
Hari Narayanan V “ Conceptualising the Self: The 
Role of Narratives” Balkan Journal of Philosophy Vol 
13, Issue 1 , 2021 pp 21-32, https://doi.org/10.5840/
bjp20211314
Conferences
1.	

Hari Narayanan, V., “Dialgoue and Counselling” in 
the First International Conference on Philosophical 
Counselling held at University of Delhi from 14-16 
January 2022
2. 
Hari Narayanan, V. “Attention and Meaning” in the 
Fourth International Conference on Philosophy and 
Meaning of Life held at University of Pretoria from 
17-19 January 2022
viii. Dr. Natasa Thoudam
Journal Publications
1.	

Thoudam, N. 2021. “Divisive Politics of the Inner 
Line Permit (ILP) in Three Stories from Manipur in 
India’s Northeast.” South Asia: Journal of South 
Asian Studies, vol. 44, no. 4, 2021, pp- 790–806. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/00856401.2021.1940479
2. 
Thoudam, N. 2022“Book review: L. Somi Roy, 
Maharaj Kumari Binodini, The Princess and the 
Political Agent.” Indian Journal of Gender Studies, 
vol. 29, no. 1, 2022, pp. 146–50. https://doi.
org/10.1177%2F09715215211057941
Conferences
3. 
Thoudam, N. “From Mahasveta’s “Dopti” to 
Kanhailal’s Draupadi: Translating Draupadi/Dopti”— 
IACLALS ANNUAL INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE 
2022 titled “Circulations, Mediations, Negotiations: 
New Perspectives on Translation from South Asia” 
organized by IACLALS held on 2 to 5 Mar 2022 
(online).
4. 
Thoudam, N. “Archival Pedagogy: Teaching 
a Course on India’s Northeast in an Online 
Classroom”. International Archives Week - Milli 
Sessions 2021 organized by Milli Consortium held 
on 7 to 13 Jun 2021.
5. 
Thoudam, N. “Gendered Spaces and Gendered 
Violence: Towards an Interrogation of the Concept 
of Caste in Devala Mutum’s ‘Thaningla’ and 
Hoihnu Hauzel’s Essential North-East Cookbook” 
(Plenary Lecture), the International Conference on 
“Cartographies of Gender Based Violence: Literary 
Reflections from South Asia and Beyond” organized 
by IIT Patna, 12 and 13 Mar 2022.
6. 
Thoudam, N. “In Search of a Form while Inventing 
a Language of Subversion through Stereotypes”. 
Transitions 9 Symposium: New Directions in Comics 
Studies organized by Kingston University; University 
of the Arts London; and Birkbeck, University of 
London, held on 8 to 10 Apr 2021.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

7.	

Thoudam, N. “On Pandemic Art Poetry: A Graphic 
Narrative in the Form of a Poem”. Resilience, 
Resistance, Renovation, and Rebirth Conference 
2021 hosted by Northern Arizona University (NAU) 
College of Arts and Letters held on 22 to 23 Apr 
2021
8. 
Thoudam, N. “Remapping the Indian Novel in 
English” organized by Kirori Mal College, DU, and 
Mizoram University (online), Faculty Development 
Programme (FDP), FDP: 21–25 Jun 2021
ix. Dr. Parichay Patra
Journal Publications
1.	

Patra, P. 2022. “Beyond the Metanarratives of Indian 
Cinema.” Discourse: Journal for Theoretical Studies 
in Media and Culture 44.1, 101-08. (ISSN1522-5321)
Books
2. 
Patra P. & Kho Lim, Michael (Eds.). 2021 Sine ni Lav 
Diaz: A Long Take on the Filipino Auteur, Bristol/
Chicago: Intellect/University of Chicago Press 
(Book)
3. 
Patra, P. 2021. “Jesus, Magdalene and the Filipino 
Judas: Lav Diaz and his ‘Artless’ Epics” In Sine 
ni Lav Diaz: A Long Take on the Filipino Auteur, 
eds. Parichay Patra and Michael Kho Lim, Bristol/
Chicago: Intellect/University of Chicago Press, 2021, 
pp. 130-45
Conferences
4. 
Patra, P. “When the History Fails: Global South 
Re-narrated through the Anecdotal”, American 
Comparative Literature Association (ACLA) 2020 
Annual Meeting, Online, USA, April 8-11, 2021
5. 
Patra, P. “The Prominence of History and the Lack 
of the Global”, at I World Cinema International 
Conference, Universidad de Complutense de 
Madrid, Spain, June 202
x. Dr. Prasenjeet Tribhuvan
Conferences
1.	

Vajpai, I & Tribhuvan, P. Employee Engagement 
Based Framework for Internal Marketing and
InTCRM in the IT sector. International Conference 
for Markets and Development (ICMD), 16th Biennial 
Conference of ISMD with IIM Trichy. P. 106-113, 16-18 
Dec, 2021
xi. Dr. Ruhi Sonal
1.	

Bhattacharya M., Mukherjee S. and Sonal R. 
“Frame-based stochastic choice rule”, Journal of 
Mathematical Economics, Vol. 97, 102553, 2021. 
DOI:10.1016/j.jmateco.2021.102553
xii. Dr. Suman Dhaka
Journal Publications
1.	

Mishra, Bijeta, Niswas Sahu, and Suman Dhaka. 
“Association Between Pittsburgh Sleep Quality 
Index Factors, Academic Performance and Health.” 
Sleep and Vigilance (2022): 1-10. https://doi.
org/10.1007/s41782-022-00212-5.
Conferences
2. 
Mishra, Bijecta; Dhaka, Suman, “Psychological 
Well-Being of the Elderly: Impact of Loneliness and 
Social Isolation”, 31st annual convention of NAOP, 
4-6 March 2022. Online.
3. 
S. Dhaka “ Effect of total sleep deprivation on risk-
taking behaviour: an ERP study, 26th Congress 
of the European Sleep Research Society. 27 – 30 
September 2021, Athens, Greece.
xiii. Dr. Vidya Sarveswaran
Journal Publications
1.	

Abhra Paul and Sarveswaran.V. “Knowing our 
place: Reading Barbara Kingsolver’s work from 
a bioregional perspective”.Canadian Journal of 
American Studies, University of Toronto Press (In 
print)
2. 
Sarveswaran,.V. “From Dust to Dust”. International 
Journal of Fear Studies. University of Calgary. 
Vol (3). Issue 1. 2021. Transdisciplinary and 
Interdisciplinary Approaches. Pp 118-120.
http ://prism.ucalgary.ca/handle/https1880/113237
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sr.
No Project title PI/Co-PI Sponsoring
agency Amount in
Lakhs Start
date End date
1 An Interdisciplinary Study of
Technologically Manipulated
Information : Its Ecosystem And Its
Psycho-Social Impact Dr. Chhanda
Chakraborti
(PI), Dr. Ankita
Sharma (Co-PI),
Dr. Prasanjeet
Tribhuvan (Co-
PI) ICSSR Project 18 Lakhs 10 March
2022 March
2024
2 "Offering Provocations, Surfacing
Evidence": The Archiving of
Cine-Politics under the Indian
National Emergency through Digital
Humanities 2.0 Dr. Parichay
Patra (Co-PI) SPARC,
Ministry of
Education 54 Lakhs April 2019 September
2022
Books
1.	

Slovic,S., Rangarajan, S. & Sarveswaran, V. (Eds.) 
(2022). The Bloomsbury Handbook to Medical 
Environmental Humanities. Bloomsbury, London. 
Bloosmbury, London.
2. 
Sarveswaran, V. (2022) Dying to Breathe. The 
epilogue in the Bloomsbury Handbook to Medical 
Environmental Humanities. Pp 395-397. Bloomsbury, 
London (Book Chapter).
Conferences
1.	

Sarveswaran, Vidya. Dying to Live: Solastalgia and 
Soliphilia as Diptychs in Charlotte ’s Migrations at 
the ASLE – Biennial Conference on August 5th 
2021
xiv. Dr. Mayurakshi Chaudhuri
Journal Publications
1.	

2021. Sakshi Shukla and Mayurakshi Chaudhuri, 
“Intersectional Im/Mobilities: Gender, Family and 
Information Technology Professionals in Digital 
India”, Applied Mobilities, Taylor and Francis. DOI: 
https://doi.org/10.1080/
2. 
2022. Mattius Rischard, Patricia Goodman Hayward, 
Mayurakshi Chaudhuri, Claudine Brunnquell, 
Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay, Alice C. Mello. “Authentic 
Leadership being Shared as a Collective,” in Viktor 
Wang’s (Ed) Handbook of Research on Educational 
Leadership and Research Methodology, IGI Global. 
https://www.igi-global.com/
Projects
Sponsored/Consultancy Projects
On-going Projects
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sr.
No Project title PI/Co-PI Sponsoring
agency Amount in
Lakhs Start
date End date
3 Mapping the Waqf Property in
Rajasthan Dr. Farhat Naz
(Co-PI) Ministry of
Minority
Affairs,
Government
of India 1 Crore 1 Jan
2022 31 Dec
2022
4 The Life and the After-Life of
Political Crime: A Sociological
Study of Law, Society and Human Dr. Prasanjeet
Tribhuvan (PI) Seed Grant, IIT
Jodhpur 6.7 Lakhs 20
February,
2022 February
2025
4 India Forest Policy Dr. Farhat Naz The German
Government 5 Lakhs 1 Oct
2021 28 Feb
2023
5 India Forest Policy Dr. Farhat Naz The German
Government 5 Lakhs 1 Oct
2021 28 Feb
2023
Project title PI/Co-PI Sponsoring agency Amount in
Lakhs Start
date End date
1 Elderly Health in the Context
of Universal Health Coverage:
A Cross-country Comparison
between India and the United
States.(2021-2022) Dr. Alok Ranjan United States
India Educational
Foundation (USIEF) 25.5 Lakhs 31 July
2021 30 March,
2022
2 Progress towards UHC and
costing of healthcare facilities at
Korba, Chhatisgarh.(2018-22) Dr. Alok Ranjan
(PI) State Health
Resource Centre,
Chhattisgarh. Role 5 Lakhs July
2018 December
2021
3 Social Isolation and Cognition:
Interventions to reduce social
isolation and loneliness amongst
the Elderly (2019-2021). Funded by
IMPRESS, ICSSR. Dr. Suman
Dhaka IMPRESS, ICSSR 8 Lakhs August
2019 October
2021
4 Pilot Project for Preparation of a
Structural Conservation Proposal
for Arulmigu Abathsakayeswarar
Temple in Thukkatchi,
Kumbakonam Dr. Vidya
Sarvweswaran HR&CE Department,
Government of
Tamil Nadu, National
Centre for Safety of
Heritage Structures
(NCSHS), IIT Madras. 1 Crore February
2020 April 2021
Completed Projects
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Department of Mathematics
Mathematics, being the basis of many disciplines, 
is a subject that evolves with time and creates new 
theories to solve real-world challenging problems. The 
department has been taking a leading role in developing 
new methods to model such situations that can be used 
in diverse areas of computer science, engineering, and 
basic sciences. We are excited to offer high-quality 
programs at postgraduate level for students who wish 
to apply math to science or engineering such as a two-
year M.Sc. program in Mathematics, a four-year M.Sc-M.
Tech. program in Mathematics-Data and Computational 
Sciences, a two year M.Tech program in Data and 
Computational Sciences. We also offer an M.Tech-
Ph.D. dual degree program in Data and Computational
Sciences and a Ph.D. Program with specialization in 
different areas of Mathematics to those who wish to 
earn a deeper understanding of pure and applied 
Mathematics. The department has faculty with research 
interests in the areas of Algebra, Lie Groups and its 
Applications, Cryptography and Network Security, 
Mathematical 
Physics, 
Fluid 
Dynamics, 
Scientific 
Computations, Optimization, Frame Theory, Numerical 
Analysis, Partial Differential Equations, Topological 
Dynamics, Low Dimensional Chaos, Dynamical Systems, 
Renormalization in Low-dimensional dynamics, Wavelet 
Analysis, Fractional Transform Theory, Image Processing, 
Financial Risk Analysis, Categorical Data Analysis, 
Reliability Theory and Applied Probability.
Puneet Sharma
Associate Professor
Head of Department
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Topological Dynamics, Low 
Dimensional Chaos
Dilpreet Kaur
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Algebra, Group Theory
Abhishek Sarkar
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Elliptic partial differential equations
Gaurav Bhatnagar
Associate Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Wavelet Analysis, Fractional Transform 
Theory, Multimedia Security, Image 
Processing, Information Fusion
Faculty Members
The following faculty members are associated with the department.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Kirankumar R. Hiremath
Associate Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Theoretical, mathematical and 
computational aspects of wave-matter 
interactions
Moumita Mandal
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Numerical Functional Analysis
Sukhendu Ghosh
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Hydrodynamic Instability; Differential 
Equations; Lie Groups Applications; 
Dynamical Systems
Vivek Vijay
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Financial Risk Analysis, Categorical 
Data Analysis, Regression
Vandana Sharma
Assistant Professor
(till May 16, 2021)
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Reaction-Diffusion Systems, Parabolic 
Partial Differential Equations, and 
Mathematical Biology
(The Department lost one of its 
promising faculty members due to 
sad demise of Dr. Vandana Sharma on 
May 16, 2021)
Md Abu Talhamainuddin Ansary
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Numerical Optimization; Multi-
objective Optimization; Interval 
Analysis
Nil Kamal Hazra
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Reliability Theory, Applied Probability
Tuhina Mukherjee
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Analysis of Partial Differential 
Equations
V. V. M. S. Chandramouli
Assistant Professor
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Dynamical Systems, Renormalization 
in Low-Dim Dynamics
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Description of Research Groups
The department facilitates research groups in a variety 
of areas from pure and applied mathematics. A brief 
description of the same is given below:
•

Pure Mathematics: Algebra, Analysis, Topological 
dynamics, Low dimensional chaos, Renormalization 
in low dimensional dynamics and analysis of 
partial differential equations, Numerical Functional 
Analysis, Approximation Methods, Operator Theory, 
Projection Methods for solving integral equations 
and Integro-Differential Equations, Frame theory
•

Applied Mathematics: Hydrodynamic Stability 
Analysis, Lie Groups Applications, Mathematical 
Modelling, Finite frames for sparse representation, 
Pilot design for cellular and cell-free wireless 
communication systems, Run-time power 
management for embedded systems, Group testing, 
Cryptographic Boolean Functions, Cryptology, 
Quantum Encryption with Classical Communication, 
Multivariate Public-Key Cryptosystems, Broadcast 
encryption, Traitor tracing and revocation, Attribute-
based encryption, Cloud computing, Internet of 
Things (IoT), Mathematical optics,
•

Probability-Statistics & Optimization: Reliability, 
Applied Probability, Information Theory, Numerical 
Optimization, Sparse vector Optimization
•

Data Science: Time Series Modeling, Reinforcement 
learning, Lightweight Neural Network
•

Computational Science: Computational optics
Academic Programmes
The department of Mathematics offers an 
undergraduate program in Artificial Engineering and 
Data Science jointly with the Department of Computer 
Science and Engineering. We also offer exciting 
high-quality programs at the postgraduate level such 
as a two-year M.Sc. program in Mathematics, a four-
year M.Sc-M.Tech program in Mathematics-Data and 
Computational Sciences, and a two-year M.Tech
program in Data and Computational Sciences. We also 
offer an M.Tech-Ph.D. dual degree program in Data 
and Computational Sciences and a Ph.D. program 
specializing in different areas of Mathematics to 
those who wish to earn a deeper understanding of 
fundamentals of pure and applied Mathematics. The 
Department of Mathematics also offers a Minor Program 
in Data Science (DS) at the undergraduate level (for all 
the B.Tech. students of the institute except the students 
enrolled in B.Tech.(CSE), B.Tech.(AI&DE), and B.Tech.
(EE) programs). The program facilitates the study of a 
multidisciplinary field that extensively uses statistics, 
predictive modeling, and machine learning without 
changing its application, irrespective of the domain. 
Moreover, the faculty members of the department 
actively participate in fulfilling the teaching and 
executional requirements of Executive M.Tech. program 
in Data and Computational Sciences (with the School 
of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science (AIDE)) and 
Executive M.Tech. program in Artificial Intelligence (with 
the Department of Computer Science and Engineering).
Significant Research Achievements
The faculty members of the department have been 
making significant progress towards developing new 
methods to model and solve various problems that 
can be used in diverse areas of sciences, engineering 
and emerging technologies. Consequently, the faculty 
members have published research papers in some of 
the leading journals in their respective domains and 
have been awarded research projects by external 
agencies to continue research in different areas of 
fundamental and applied mathematics. A brief summary 
of the same is given below.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

PI Project title Funding
Agency Total fund
amount Start Date End Date Fund received
in FY 21-22
Nil Kamal
Hazra Some Important
Problems on Information
Measures SERB Rs. 660000 Feb.-2022 Feb.-2025 Rs. 220000
Nil Kamal
Hazra Towards More Realistic
$\delta$-Shock Models
and Their Applications SERB Rs. 1389344 Jan.-2022 Jan.-2024 Rs. 774672
Moumita
Mandal Spectral Methods for
derivative dependent
integral equations and
integro-differential
equations. NBHM 15,14800/- Jul.-2021 Jul.-2024 Rs 5,30,000
Moumita
Mandal Superconvergence
Results for Integro-
Differential Initial
and Boundary Value
Problems by Spectral
Projection Methods IITJ 1000000/- Aug.-2021 Aug.-2024 Rs. 600000
Sukhendu
Ghosh Mathematical framework
of secondary and
nonlinear instabilities for
complex flow systems SERB Rs. 15,26,844 Feb.-2022 Feb.-2024 Rs. 900922
Sukhendu
Ghosh Mathematical modelling
of infectious diseases
using surfactant
dynamics SERB 6,60,000/- Mar.-2022 Mar.-2025 Rs. 220000
Abhishek
Sarkar Eigenvalue type
problems related to
linear and quasi-linear
operators DST Rs.
35,00,000 Apr.-2019 Apr.-2024 Rs. 7,00,000
Puneet
Sharma On Graph Induced
Symbolic Dynamics SERB Rs. 6,60,000 Feb.-2020 Feb.-2023 Rs. 2,20,000
Vivek Vijay Virtually connecting
village to nearby doctors
including PHC through
Videoconferencing IIT Delhi Rs. 80,000 Feb.-2022 Mar.-2023 Rs. 80,000
Research Projects Awarded
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

1	

Gupta, D., & Chandramouli, V. V. M. S. (2022b). 
Topological entropy of one-dimensional deformed 
maps. In Nandkeolyar R. & Sharma R.K. (Eds.), AIP 
Conf. Proc. (Vol. 2435). American Institute of Physics 
Inc. ISBN: 0094243X; 9780735441774 (ISBN). 
https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0083735
2	

Kumar, R., Goyal, A., & Chandramouli, V. V. M. S. 
(2022). Repelling hyperbolic Cantor set of a bimodal 
map. In Nandkeolyar R. & Sharma R.K. (Eds.), AIP 
Conf. Proc. (Vol. 2435). American Institute of Physics 
Inc. ISBN: 0094243X; 9780735441774 (ISBN). 
https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0083567
3	

Gupta, D., & Chandramouli, V. V. M. S. (2022a). 
Dynamics of deformed Hénon-like map. Chaos, 
Solitons and Fractals, 155. ISSN: 09600779. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.chaos.2021.111760
4	

Hazra, N. K., Finkelstein, M., & Cha, J. H. (2022). 
On a hazard (failure) rate process with delays after 
shocks. Statistics and Probability Letters, 181. ISSN: 
01677152. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.spl.2021.109276
5	

Sharma, V., Prajapat, J. V., & Prajapat, J. V. (2022). 
Global existence of solutions to reaction diffusion 
systems with mass transport type boundary 
conditions on an evolving domain. Discrete and 
Continuous Dynamical Systems- Series A, 42(1), 
109–135. ISSN: 10780947. https://doi.org/10.3934/
dcds.2021109
6	

Mukherjee, T., Pucci, P., & Xiang, M. (2022). 
Combined effects of singular and exponential 
nonlinearities in fractional kirchhoff problems. 
Discrete and Continuous Dynamical Systems- 
Series A, 42(1), 163–187. ISSN: 10780947. https://doi.
org/10.3934/dcds.2021111
7	

Gupta, D., & Chandramouli, V. V. M. S. (2021). 
An improved q-deformed logistic map and its 
implications. Pramana - Journal of Physics, 95(4). 
ISSN: 03044289. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12043-021-
02209-7
8	

Kumar, R., & Chandramouli, V. V. M. S. (2021a). 
Period tripling and quintupling renormalizations 
below C2SPACE. Discrete and Continuous
Dynamical Systems- Series A, 41(12), 5633–
5658. ISSN: 10780947. https://doi.org/10.3934/
dcds.2021091
9	

Maiti, S., Kumar, A., Jain, S., & Bhatnagar, G. 
(2021). A Novel Image Inpainting Framework 
Using Regression. ACM Transactions on Internet 
Technology, 21(3). ISSN: 15335399. https://doi.
org/10.1145/3402177
10 
Selvan, S. A., Ghosh, S., Behera, H., & Meylan, 
M. H. (2021). Hydroelastic response of a floating 
plate on the falling film: A stability analysis. Wave 
Motion, 104. ISSN: 01652125. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
wavemoti.2021.102749
11	

Finkelstein, M., & Hazra, N. K. (2021). Generalization 
of the pairwise stochastic precedence order to 
the sequence of random variables. Probability in 
the Engineering and Informational Sciences, 35(3), 
699–707. ISSN: 02699648. https://doi.org/10.1017/
S0269964820000145
12 
Hazra, N. K., & Misra, N. (2021). On relative aging 
comparisons of coherent systems with identically 
distributed components. Probability in the 
Engineering and Informational Sciences, 35(3), 
481–495. ISSN: 02699648. https://doi.org/10.1017/
S0269964820000066
13 
Khan, M. B. M., Sani, M., Ghosh, S., & Behera, H. 
(2021). Poiseuille-Rayleigh-Bénard instability of a 
channel flow with uniform cross-flow and thermal 
slip. Physics of Fluids, 33(5). ISSN: 10706631. https://
doi.org/10.1063/5.0050006
14 
Kumar, R., & Chandramouli, V. V. M. S. (2021b). 
Renormalization of Symmetric Bimodal Maps with 
Low Smoothness. Journal of Statistical Physics, 
183(2). ISSN: 00224715. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s10955-021-02764-8
15 
Goyal, S., & Mukherjee, T. (2021). Kirchhoff 
Equations with Choquard Exponential Type 
Nonlinearity Involving the Fractional Laplacian. Acta 
Applicandae Mathematicae, 172(1). ISSN: 01678019. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10440-021-00402-9
Publications
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No Project Title Sponsoring Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start
Date End
Date
1 Validation of Jodhpur
Instrumented Kursi
Against Dual Energy X-Ray
Absorptiometry to Diagnose
Sarcopenia in Older Indians ICMR Vivek Vijay H11,01,710 01-Oct-19 30-Sep-
20
2 Eigenvalue type problems
related to linear and quasi-
linear operators DST Abhishek Sarkar H35,00,000 01-Apr-19 31-Mar-
24
3 On Graph Induced Symbolic
Dynamics DST SERB Puneet Sharma H6,60,000 21-Feb-
20 20-Feb-
23
4 A Study on Fractional Laplacian
Operator with Hardy Type
Potentials DST-Inspire Faculty PhD Student-
Deepak Kumar
Mahanta
Mentor-Dr.
Abhishek Sarkar
& Dr. Tuhina
Mukherjee H4,51,520 11-Jan-21 10-Jan-
26
5 Spectral Methods for derivative
dependent integral equations
and integro-differential
equations NBHM Moumita Mandal H15,14,800 23-Jul-21 22-Jul-
24
6 Towards more realistic delta-
shock models and their
applications SERB-SRG Nil Kamal Hazra H13,89,344 24-Jan-
22 23-Jan-
24
7 Mathematical Framework
of secondary and nonlinear
instabilities for complex flow
systems SERB-SRG Sukhendu Ghosh H15,26,844 04-Feb-
22 03-Feb-
24
8 Study of Some Important
Problems on Information
Measures SERB-Mathematical
Research Impact
Centric Support
(MATRICS) Nil Kamal Hazra H6,60,000 18-Feb-
22 17-Feb-
25
9 Mathematical Modelling of
infectious diseases using
surfactant dynamics SERB-Mathematical
Research Impact
Centric Support
(MATRICS) Sukhendu Ghosh H6,60,000 02-Mar-
22 01-Mar-
25
10 Virtually connecting village to
nearby doctors including PHC
through Videoconferencing IIT Delhi Vivek Vijay H80,000 03-Feb-
22 31-Mar-
23
Projects
Sponsored Projects
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S. No Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start Date End Date
1 M. Tech Executive DCS
Program IIT Jodhpur Gaurav
Bhatnagar H2,48,40,000 02-Oct-21 01-Oct-22
S.No Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start Date End Date
1 TEW on Linear Algebra & Its
Application NCM Dilpreet Kaur H1,45,800 19-Nov-20 13-Dec-20
2 Popular Talk on Bernstein
Polynomials, Computer-Aided
Geomet Design and Real
Algebraic Applications NCM Dilpreet Kaur H9,937 12-Feb-20 12-Feb-20
Consultancy Projects
Other Projects
Closed Projects
1) Multimedia security based on biometrics for copyright protection and authentication
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB)
PI: Gaurav Bhatnagar Rs.13.44 Lakhs Start Date: 13-Nov-2014	End Date: 01-Jul-2021
Outcome: The emphasis of the project is on development of new concepts, algorithm and techniques in 
multimedia security for copyright protection and authentication. The efforts have been made to extend 
the idea of multimedia security which can help to use biometrics as a proof for ownership, to examine the 
conditions for biometrics to be utilized for copyright protection and authentication of multimedia, and to 
investigate the properties of biometrics for multimedia security by forming a biometrically encoded bitstream 
from biometrics. The study also include integration of different biometric information and designing of 
guidelines for a more efficient, novel and economical watermarking system, which embeds biometrics 
bitstream invisibly in the host multimedia as a notice of legitimate ownership.
Faculty/ Department Laurels
(1) 
Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar is listed in the list of “WORLD RANKING OF TOP 2% SCIENTISTS" in the area of “Artificial 
Intelligence & Image Processing" (for both Career-long and Year 2020) according to the report published by 
Stanford University in August 2021.
Student Laurels
(1) 
Mr. Tapesh Yadav has been offered a Ph.D. position (fully funded) at Department of Mathematics, University of 
Memphis, Tennessee in August 2021.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Laboratories and equipment
The Department of Mathematics has set up a 
computational lab with 20 PCs to cater to the 
requirements of Masters students enrolled with the 
department.
Outreach activities
(1) 
Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar served as Guest Editor for 
the Special Issue on "Computational Intelligence 
Techniques for Information Security and Forensics 
in IoT Environments" in the journal Wireless 
Communications and Mobile Computing, May 2021.
(2) 
Dr Vivek Vijay delivered an Invited Talk on National 
Mathematics Day at Lachoo Memorial College, 
Jodhpur, 22 December 2021.
(3) 
Dr Vivek Vijay delivered a talk in Symposium 
on Advancement of Research on Yagya at Dev 
Sanskriti University, Haridwar, 4 December 2021.
(4) 
Dr. Sukhendu Ghosh delivered an invited talk in 
the IQAC-Sponsored Webinar MATHEMATICS 
FOR COMPUTING: RECENT TRENDS” at the Indas 
Mahavidyalaya, W.B., India during 7-8 October, 
2021.
(5) 
Dr. Sukhendu Ghosh delivered an invited talk on 
“Applications of Linear Algebra and Numerical 
Analysis on Hydrodynamics” at the Pandit 
Deendayal Energy University, Gandhinagar, India on 
28th November, 2021.
(6) 
Dr. Sukhendu Ghosh delivered an invited talk on 
“Use of Linear Algebra and Numerical Analysis in 
Hydrodynamics” at the KPR Institute of Engineering 
and Technology, Coimbatore, India on 2nd 
February, 2022.
(7) 
Dr. Sukhendu Ghosh delivered a lecture in the 
Mathematics Webinar organized by Department of 
Mathematics, Ramnagar College, W.B, India on 27th 
March 2022.
(8) 
Dr. Tuhina Mukherjee delivered an invited talk in 
IITG Mathematics Seminar Series (Webinar) on 
January 18, 2022.
(9) 
Dr. Moumita Mandal was the member of the 
Technical Program Committee of the International 
Conference on Mathematics and Computing (ICMC) 
conference held on Mar 02, 2021 - Mar 05, 2021 at 
IIEST, Shibpur, Kolkata , India.
(10) 

Dr. Moumita Mandal was the member of the 
Technical Program Committee and session chair of 
the International Conference on Mathematics and 
Computing (ICMC) conference held on Jan 6, 2022-
Jan 8, 2022 at VIT Vellore, Tamil Nadu, India.
(11) 
Dr. Moumita Mandal becomes the Member of 
Allahabad Mathematical Society (Al.M.S.), Affiliate 
Member of American Mathematical Society, Life 
Member of INDIAN MATHEMATICAL SOCIETY, and 
Ramanujan Mathematical Society since 2021.
(12) 

Dr. V.V.M.S. Chandramouli served as Mathematical 
Reviewer, American Mathematical Society, Jan’ 
2021-till date.
(13) 
K. R. Hiremath, Expert talk on 'Computational 
methods for electromagnetics and photonics 
devices', AICTE QIP Sponsored Short Term Course 
Microwave and Photonic Devices and Modeling at 
IIT Bhubaneswar, June 22, 2021
(14) 
K. R. Hiremath, Invited talk on 'Coupled Mode 
Theory, 5th workshop on Optics and Photonics: 
Theory and computational techniques IIT Delhi, 
December 26-27, 2021
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

1. Smart Manufacturing and Industry 4.0 7. Energy and Sustainability
2. Multi-scale Manufacturing 8. Solid Mechanics and Design
3. Processing of Novel Materials 9. Vibration and Acoustics
4. Fluid Thermal System Design 10. Robotics and Mobility Systems
5. Multiphase Flows 11. Aerodynamics
6. Microfluidics 12. MEMS
Department of Mechanical 
Engineering
The Department of Mechanical Engineering at IIT 
Jodhpur is devoted to impart quality engineering 
education and pursuit the excellence in research. It is 
dedicated to prepare students to face the emerging 
challenges of forthcoming decades. The vision of 
the Department is to attain synchronous evolution of 
pedagogical pursuit and research initiatives to nurture 
young minds finding technological solutions for emerging 
engineering challenges. The department offers B. 
Tech. M. Tech. and Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering 
within three broader domains of Thermofluids, Design 
and Smart Manufacturing. Looking at the diaspora 
of current and futuristic technology demand, the 
following four specializations are envisioned to be 
nurtured and expanded by the Department, namely 
(i) Micro-Nano Engineering (ii) Energy Engineering, 
(iii) Design Engineering, and (iv) Smart Manufacturing. 
The students also have the opportunity to work with 
interdisciplinary specializations in emerging areas like 
Artificial Intelligence (AI), Internet of things (IoT), Smart 
Healthcare, and Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS). The 
flexible curriculum structure of the Department also 
allows and encourages undergraduate students to 
pursue a management or entrepreneurial career.
At IIT Jodhpur, mechanical engineers are educated in 
a way not only to adapt but to define direct change. 
This is reflected in the portfolio of the current activities 
of the department. Faculty members are involved in a 
wide range of projects in the areas of energy conversion 
and power systems, heat transfer and fluid mechanics, 
mechanics of solid, mechanical vibrations, robotics, 
autonomous unmanned vehicles, design optimization, 
acoustics and noise control, control systems, rotor 
dynamics, nano-materials, biomechanics, bio-inspired 
thermofluids, fluid-structure interaction, conventional/
nonconventional 
manufacturing, 
and 
multi-scale 
manufacturing to name a few. Additionally, efforts are 
being made to introduce advanced concepts like smart 
manufacturing, Industry 4.0, smart scientific computing 
techniques, high-performance computing, applications 
of artificial intelligence, machine learning algorithms, 
sensors, and IoT as a part of solving interdisciplinary 
problems requiring mechanical engineering knowhow. 
Keeping a balance between theory and hands-on 
experience, the department intends to provide its 
students with a solid foundation in core as well as 
emerging areas of mechanical engineering by inspiring 
critical thinking and nurturing problem-solving skills.
Technology Tracks include the following:
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

The following Faculty Members are associated with the department:
Faculty Members
Prodyut R. Chakraborty
Head of the Department
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Heat and mass transfer, Latent 
heat-based storage device for high 
temperature applications, Alloy 
solidification process, Active and 
passive solar cooling systems, 
Electronic cooling
Anand Krishnan Plappally
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Water, Water Management and 
Characterization of Engineered 
Materials
Barun Pratiher
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Dynamics of Machines and Structures, 
Flexible Robots, MEMS, Rotor 
Dynamics, Nonlinear Oscillations
B. Ravindra
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Design, Dynamics, Vibration and 
Control
Amrita Puri
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Active noise control; Active vibration 
control; Experimental modal analysis; 
Acoustics
Atul Kumar Sharma
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Solid Mechanics; Continuum Mechanics; 
Computational Solid Mechanics; 
Mechanics of Soft Active Materials; Wave 
Propagation in Soft Active Composite 
Materials; Topology Optimization
Hardik B. Kothadia
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Multiphase Flow, Boiling and 
Condensation, Heat Transfer, Fluid 
Mechanics, Gasification
Kaushalkumar A. Desai
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Modeling of Manufacturing Processes, 
CAD/CAM, CNC Machining, Error 
compensation
Rahul Chibber
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Welding and joining, Manufacturing 
and materials processing, Mechanical 
behaviour of materials
Suril V. Shah
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Robotics, Multibody Dynamics and 
Control
Sudipto Mukhopadhyay
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Energy Technology, Combustion 
Technology, Computational Fluid 
Dynamics, Turbulent flows, Sprays
Nipun Arora
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Flapping wing aerodynamics; Fluid-
structure interaction; CFD with Lattice 
Boltzmann method; Turbulence and moving 
boundary simulations; High performance 
computing; Electrorheological Fluids
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Chandan Pandey
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Welding, Heat treatment, Nuclear 
grade material, Mechanical behavior 
of materials, Material processing
Arun Kumar, R.
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Experimental Aerodynamics - 
Confined Jets, Shock Wave Reflection 
and Transitions, Ejector Flows
Ankur Gupta
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Microsystems Fabrication
Jayant Kumar Mohanta
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Planar Parallel manipulators; Lower 
limb rehabilitation robots; Medical 
robotics; Robot manipulator kinematic 
and dynamic control, Mechanism 
design and Analysis
Shobhana Singh
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Thermal energy systems: Thermal 
energy storage, Solar dryers, Heat 
pumps, Heat exchangers; Heat and 
mass transfer analysis; Dynamic and 
multiphysics modeling; Computational 
fluid dynamic modeling; System and 
design optimization; Renewable 
energy integration; Electrochemical 
carbon capture
Shrutidhara Sarma
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Thin film nanocomposite temperature 
sensors, nanocomposite materials, 
flexible sensors
Ashish Pathak
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Fluid-Structure Interaction; Ocean 
Energy; Phase-Change Problems; 
Multiphase flows; High Performance 
Computing
Prof. C. S. Upadhyay
Department of Aerospace 
Engineering, IIT Kanpur is spending 
his sabbatical at the Department of 
Mechanical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Solid Mechanics, Adaptive Finite 
Element Methods, Structural 
Optimization
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Harshal Akolekar
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Aerodynamics; Computational 
Fluid Dynamics; Machine Learning; 
Submarine Hydrodynamics; 
Turbomachinery
Ashok Joshi
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Dynamics & Control of Flexible 
Vehicles; Navigation & Guidance; 
Space Mechanics; Unmanned 
Systems and Swarms
The following Faculty Members joined the department during this year.
Description of Research Groups
Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) group
Computational 
Fluid 
Dynamics 
(CFD) 
solvers 
allow 
us 
to 
investigate 
flow fields, structures and 
field 
distributions 
which 
may be difficult to access 
experimentally. 
This 
gives 
researchers a unique insight 
into a physical phenomena 
or how different phenomena 
are 
interacting 
with 
one 
another. 
The 
Mechanical 
Engineering department now 
consists of a dynamic CFD 
group. The faculty members 
in the group include Dr. 
Prodyut Ranjan Chakaborty , 
Dr. Sudipto Mukhopadhyay, 
Dr. Nipun Arora, Dr. Shobana 
Singh, Dr. Harshal Akolekar 
and Dr. Ashish Pathak. The 
faculty members are currently 
supervising projects on a 
diverse range of topics that 
includes 
thermal 
energy 
storage, water management, 
waste heat recovery, fluid-
structure interaction problems such as flapping wings and ocean wave energy 
converters, combustion & propulsion, turbomachinery and machine learning based 
turbulence modeling.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Welding Research Group
In advanced ultra-supercritical (AUSC) power plants, the dissimilar joint between ferritic/martensitic grade steel and Ni-
based superalloy (Inconel 617) suffers from several issues like mismatch in coefficient of thermal expansion (CTE), mismatch 
in microstructure, chemical composition, and mechanical properties, and migration of elements across the weld interface 
during welding and service condition. The problems are mainly mitigated by using the Ni-based superalloy filler like 
IN617, IN625, and IN82. The faculty members in the group include Dr. Chandan Pandey and Dr. Rahul Chhibber. The 
welding research group of IIT Jodhpur is currently working on welding problems associated with dissimilar joints for power 
plants, chemical, nuclear and aerospace industries. The research interest includes the evaluation of residual stresses in 
dissimilar weldments, structural integrity assessment of the welded joint and development of the various type of fluxes and 
consumables for the shielded metal arc welding (SMAW) process.
Fig. Groove details: (a) conventional V groove (b) narrow V groove; (c, and d); (e and f) 
welded plate front and back view.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Fig. Metallographic microstructures on both the side of the interface for narrow groove.
Robotics group
At IIT jodhpur, research activities have been undertaken in space and mobile robotics. The Faculty Members in this 
group are Dr. Suril Shah and Dr. Jayant Mohanta. A brief overview of key contributions in these areas is highlighted 
next.
Research on Space Robotics
Research activities have been undertaken in reactionless manipulation, capture and post-capture control, vision-
based control, dynamic identification and earth-based prototype development
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Research on Mobile Robotics
Research activities have been undertaken in the control of multi-robot systems, design of modular robots, 
autonomous aerial robots, and motion planning and control of legged robots.
Solar Thermal Energy Group
Solar energy plays a key role in future advancement and transition of the global energy system. With the rapid 
integration of solar energy, applied science and engineering research and development in the areas of solar energy 
are required. The Solar Thermal Energy Group in the Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur carries 
out research and development targeted at improving thermal science and engineering applied to solar renewable 
energy technologies. The primary research focus is on high-temperature heat and mass transfer phenomena and 
multi-phase flows with applications in solar thermal power, energy storage, and energy conversion processes. The 
group has a strong team of faculty members and research scholars working on diverse solar thermal systems, such 
as thermal energy storage, parabolic dish concentrator, central receiver, solar dryer, solar cooker, etc.
The unique laboratory facilities in the department enable the group to pursue highly innovative projects on technology 
advancements and train young engineers in the field of sustainable solar energy technologies. Energy Conversion 
and Storage Research (ECSR) Lab combines the multiphysics approach with CFD to study thermal energy systems 
and conversion technologies. The lab develops objective-oriented CFD models to investigate the thermal-hydraulic 
behavior of energy systems. The current research focuses on the design and development of thermal energy storage 
(TES) for high-temperature solar energy applications using solid storage media such as concrete, rocks, and ceramic 
that have a minimal environmental impact. The lab is also engaged in developing thermoelectric devices to tap the 
solar thermal energy, including waste heat for direct conversion into electricity. Additionally, the lab has developed 
passive solar dryer systems using low-cost materials for solar heat collection and efficient drying of food products for 
long-term storage. The Faculty Members in this group are Dr. Prodyut Ranjan Chakraborty, Dr. Hardik Kothadia and 
Dr. Shobhana Singh.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Schematic of the proposed system involving Solar PV, Ammonia based VCRS, CEG-Water/Ice Composite Cold 
Energy Storage, Building Cooling and Power Grid.
Schematic of the solar adsorption cooling/heating demonstration unit.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Solar based flash evaporation desalination system for saline water / industry wastewater treatment.
Microsystems Research Group
Microsystems research group in the department of mechanical engineering at IIT Jodhpur explores innovative 
and inexpensive fabrication methods for microsystems for wide range of applications. Through various research 
problems-in-hand, faculty members have found out the cost effective methodology to realize embedded high aspect 
nanostructures, nano-porous films for various applications viz., sensors, water treatment etc. as well as worked on 
various microsystems design and development. Working in the interdisciplinary area, the group is focussing on 
microsystems design and development in collaboration with the researchers of other department and institutes. The 
Faculty Members in this group are Dr. Ankur Gupta and Dr. Shrutidhara Sarma.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Flapping wing MAV group
Micro air vehicles (MAVs) or drones have carved a niche as a new class of aerial robots, with immediate interests 
in military and civilian applications such as reconnaissance, surveillance, rescue operations, field surveys, food and 
package delivery, pesticide spray, etc. The major portion of the market share is dominated by the rotary wing drones. 
Flapping wing drones are the emerging popular ones, though a segment of these inspired by natural flyers have 
seen a renewed interest among aerodynamicists and researchers for their better manoeuvrability and flight control. 
The majority of species in this research involve insects, which operate in unfavourable aerodynamic conditions 
such as low Reynolds numbers generating low lift to drag ratios. Despite their low lift to drag ratios, insects sustain 
their flight by adhering to high flapping frequencies and employing diverse flapping trajectories. The MAVs share 
similar dimensions and operating conditions as natural flyers, and their fabrication thus requires understanding the 
various complex aerodynamic phenomena associated with flapping flight. Our group is envisaged in developing the 
next generation bio-inspired flapping wing MAVs. The Faculty Members in this group are Dr. Nipun Arora and Dr. C 
Venkatesan.
Figure 1. The experimental setup for aerodynamic lift and moment measurement of an indigenously developed 
flapping wing MAV.
Mechanical Design, Vibration and Control Group
Design and analysis of vibrating mechanical systems is important in a number of engineering problems. Both 
numerical and experimental analysis of acoustics and vibrations in mechanical systems help in ensuring safety and 
compliance with national and international standards. The Mechanical Engineering department now consists of group 
of faculty members in the group that include Dr. Barun Pratiher, Dr. Amrita Puri, Dr. Atul Sharma, Dr. B. Ravindra, Dr. C. 
Venkatesan, Dr. Ashok Joshi. The faculty members with their graduate students are currently supervising projects on 
a diverse range of topics that includes rotor dynamics, modal analysis, helicopter dynamics, and vehicle dynamics.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Course Number of Students
Btech 76
Mtech TFE 20
Mtech AMD 20
PhD 8
S. No. Technology Faculty Member
1 G filter Developed Anand Plappally
2 SSPV Developed Anand Plappally
Academic Programmes
Significant Research Achievements
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

1	

Singh, S. K., & Arun, K. R. (2022). A Parametric 
Study on the Fluid Dynamics and Performance 
Characteristic of Micronozzle Flows. Journal 
of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the 
ASME, 144(3). ISSN: 00982202. https://doi.
org/10.1115/1.4052546
2	

Shinde, S., Mukhopadhyay, S., & Mukhopadhyay, S. 
(2022). INVESTIGATION OF FLOW IN AN IDEALIZED 
CURVED ARTERY: COMPARATIVE STUDY USING 
CFD AND FSI WITH NEWTONIAN AND NON-
NEWTONIAN FLUIDS. Journal of Mechanics in 
Medicine and Biology, 22(2). ISSN: 02195194. 
https://doi.org/10.1142/S0219519422500105
3	

Biswal, H. J., Srivastava, T., Vundavilli, P. R., & Gupta, 
A. (2022). Facile fabrication of hydrophobic ZnO 
nanostructured nickel microtubes through pulse 
electrodeposition as promising photocatalyst for 
wastewater remediation. Journal of Manufacturing 
Processes, 75, 538–551. ISSN: 15266125. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.jmapro.2022.01.001
4	

Kumar, A., & Pandey, C. (2022). Autogenous 
laser-welded dissimilar joint of ferritic/martensitic 
P92 steel and Inconel 617 alloy: mechanism, 
microstructure, and mechanical properties. Archives 
of Civil and Mechanical Engineering, 22(1). ISSN: 
16449665. https://doi.org/10.1007/s43452-021-
00365-6
5	

Khurana, A., Kumar, D., Sharma, A. K., & Joglekar, M. 
M. (2022). Static and dynamic instability modeling 
of electro-magneto-active polymers with various 
entanglements and crosslinks. International Journal 
of Non-Linear Mechanics, 139. ISSN: 00207462. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijnonlinmec.2021.103865
6	

Kishnani, V., Park, S., Nakate, U. T., Mondal, K., & 
Gupta, A. (2022). Nano-functionalized paper-based 
IoT enabled devices for point-of-care testing: 
a review. Biomedical Microdevices, 24(1). ISSN: 
13872176. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10544-021-00588-
7
7	

Sirohi, S., Gupta, A., Pandey, C., Vidyarthy, R. S., 
Guguloth, K., & Natu, H. (2022). Investigation of the 
microstructure and mechanical properties of the 
laser welded joint of P22 and P91 steel. Optics and 
Laser Technology, 147. ISSN: 00303992. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.optlastec.2021.107610
8	

Sirohi, S., Kumar, S., Bhanu, V., Pandey, C., & Gupta, 
A. (2022). Study on the Variation in Mechanical 
Properties along the Dissimilar Weldments of P22 
and P91 Steel. Journal of Materials Engineering and 
Performance, 31(3), 2281–2296. ISSN: 10599495. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11665-021-06306-x
9	

Kumar, K., & Singh, S. (2022). Investigating Thermal 
Stratification in a Hot Water Storage Tank during 
Charging Mode. In Sikarwar B.S., Tyagi R.K., 
Phanden R.K., Shukla A.K., & Chouhan M.K. (Eds.), 
J. Phys. Conf. Ser. (Vol. 2178). IOP Publishing Ltd. 
ISBN: 17426588. https://doi.org/10.1088/1742-
6596/2178/1/012001
10 
Rai, S., & Singh, S. (2022). Performance 
Enhancement of Finned Tube Heat Exchanger 
using New Vortex Generator. In Sikarwar B.S., Tyagi 
R.K., Phanden R.K., Shukla A.K., & Chouhan M.K. 
(Eds.), J. Phys. Conf. Ser. (Vol. 2178). IOP Publishing 
Ltd. ISBN: 17426588. https://doi.org/10.1088/1742-
6596/2178/1/012002
11	

Sunilkumar, P., Mohan, S., Mohanta, J. K., Wenger, 
P., & Rybak, L. (2022). Design and motion control 
scheme of a new stationary trainer to perform 
lower limb rehabilitation therapies on hip and 
knee joints. International Journal of Advanced 
Robotic Systems, 19(1). ISSN: 17298806. https://doi.
org/10.1177/17298814221075184
12 
Agarwal, A., & Desai, K. A. (2022). Effect of 
component configuration on geometric tolerances 
during end milling of thin-walled parts. International 
Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology, 
118(11–12), 3617–3630. ISSN: 02683768. https://doi.
org/10.1007/s00170-021-08185-x
Publications
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

13 
Biswal, H. J., Vundavilli, P. R., & Gupta, A. (2022). 
Fabrication and Characterization of Nickel 
Microtubes through Electroforming: Deposition 
Optimization Using Evolutionary Algorithms. Journal 
of Materials Engineering and Performance, 31(2), 
1140–1154. ISSN: 10599495. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s11665-021-06223-z
14 
Kumar, A., & Hardik, B. K. (2022). Heat transfer 
distribution and pressure fluctuations during flow 
boiling in a pipe with different orientations. Applied 
Thermal Engineering, 201. ISSN: 13594311. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.applthermaleng.2021.117822
15 
Sharma, A. K., Kosta, M., Shmuel, G., & Amir, O. 
(2022). Gradient-based topology optimization 
of soft dielectrics as tunable phononic crystals. 
Composite Structures, 280. ISSN: 02638223. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compstruct.2021.114846
16 
Sharma, A., Parth, P., Shobhana, S., Bobin, M., & 
Hardik, B. K. (2022). Numerical study of ice freezing 
process on fin aided thermal energy storage 
system. International Communications in Heat and 
Mass Transfer, 130. ISSN: 07351933. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.icheatmasstransfer.2021.105792
17 
Kumar, S., Sharma, A., Pandey, C., Basu, B., & Nath, 
S. K. (2022). Impact of Subsequent Pass Weld 
Thermal Cycles on First-Pass Coarse Grain Heat-
Affected Zone’s Microstructure and Mechanical 
Properties of Naval Bainitic Steel. Journal of 
Materials Engineering and Performance, 31(1), 
390–399. ISSN: 10599495. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s11665-021-06177-2
18 
Kumar, V. D., Upadhyay, V. K., Singh, G., 
Mukhopadhyay, S., & Chandra, L. (2022). Open 
volumetric air receiver: An innovative application 
and a major challenge. Wiley Interdisciplinary 
Reviews: Energy and Environment, 11(1). ISSN: 
20418396. https://doi.org/10.1002/wene.404
19 
Sirohi, S., Taraphdar, P. K., Dak, G., Pandey, 
C., Sharma, S. K., & Goyal, A. (2021). Study on 
evaluation of through-thickness residual stresses
and microstructure-mechanical property relation 
for dissimilar welded joint of modified 9Cr–1Mo and 
SS304H steel. International Journal of Pressure 
Vessels and Piping, 194. ISSN: 03080161. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.ijpvp.2021.104557
20 
Dayam, S., Desai, K. A., & Kuttolamadom, M. 
(2021). In-process dimension monitoring system 
for integration of legacy machine tools into the 
industry 4.0 framework. Smart and Sustainable 
Manufacturing Systems, 5(1), 242–263. ISSN: 
25206478. https://doi.org/10.1520/SSMS20210021
21 
Yadav, A., Mondal, K., & Gupta, A. (2021). Biomedical 
application of ZnO nanoscale materials. In Met. 
Oxides for Biomed. and Biosens. Appl. (pp. 407–
435). Elsevier. ISBN: 9780128230589. https://doi.
org/10.1016/B978-0-12-823033-6.00014-4
22 
Kishnani, V., Mondal, K., & Gupta, A. (2021). 
Introduction to metal oxide-based biosensing. In 
Met. Oxides for Biomed. and Biosens. Appl. (pp. 
169–182). Elsevier. ISBN: 9780128230589. https://
doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-823033-6.00005-3
23 
Mangla, B., Dwivedi, N. K., Sharma, D. K., Bardhan, 
A., Rajput, A., & Singh, S. (2021). Low latitude, 
topside ionosphere composition and its variation 
with changeable solar activity. Indian Journal of 
Radio and Space Physics, 50(4), 190–197. ISSN: 
03678393.
24 
Verma, G., Mondal, K., & Gupta, A. (2021). Si-
based MEMS resonant sensor: A review from 
microfabrication perspective. Microelectronics 
Journal, 118. ISSN: 00262692. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.mejo.2021.105210
25 
Sirohi, S., Pandey, C., & Goyal, A. (2021a). 
Corrigendum to “Role of the Ni-based filler 
(IN625) and heat-treatment on the mechanical 
performance of the GTA welded dissimilar joint of 
P91 and SS304H steel” [J Manuf Process 65 (2021) 
2717] (Journal of Manufacturing Processes (2021) 
65 (174–189), (S152661252100195X), (10.1016/j.
jmapro.2021.03.029)). Journal of Manufacturing
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

26 
Phadatare, H. P., & Pratiher, B. (2021b). Nonlinear 
dynamics and chaos of a multi-disk rotating 
shaft undergoing large deflection mounted on 
a moving support. International Journal of Non-
Linear Mechanics, 137. ISSN: 00207462. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.ijnonlinmec.2021.103819
27 
Kishnani, V., Verma, G., Pippara, R. K., Yadav, A., 
Chauhan, P. S., & Gupta, A. (2021). Highly sensitive, 
ambient temperature CO sensor using tin oxide 
based composites. Sensors and Actuators 
A: Physical, 332. ISSN: 09244247. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.sna.2021.113111
28 
Kumar, R., Sharma, L., Chhibber, R., Dixit, A., & 
Singhal, R. (2021). Environmental Degradation 
of Glass Fiber-Reinforced Nanocomposites with 
Self-Healing Reinforcement in Polymer Matrix for 
Wind Turbine Blade Application. Transactions of 
the Indian Institute of Metals, 74(12), 3119–3133. 
ISSN: 09722815. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12666-021-
02361-z
29 
Khurana, A., Kumar, D., Sharma, A. K., & Joglekar, 
M. M. (2021b). Nonlinear oscillations of particle-
reinforced electro-magneto-viscoelastomer 
actuators. Journal of Applied Mechanics, 
Transactions ASME, 88(12). ISSN: 00218936. https://
doi.org/10.1115/1.4051911
30 
Kumar R, A., & Pathak, V. (2021). Shock wave 
mitigation using zig-zag structures and cylindrical 
obstructions. Defence Technology, 17(6), 1840–
1851. ISSN: 22149147. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
dt.2020.10.001
31 
Sharma, L., & Chhibber, R. (2021b). Investigations of 
Surface Properties of SAW Fluxes Using CaO-SiO2-
TiO2 & Al2O3-CaO-SiO2 Ternary Phase Systems. 
Silicon, 13(12), 4623–4631. ISSN: 1876990X. https://
doi.org/10.1007/s12633-020-00787-6
32 
Agarwal, A., & Desai, K. A. (2021). Rigidity Regulation 
Approach for Geometric Tolerance Optimization
in End Milling of Thin-Walled Components. Journal 
of Manufacturing Science and Engineering, 
Transactions of the ASME, 143(11). ISSN: 10871357. 
https://doi.org/10.1115/1.4051008
33 
Kumar, K., & Singh, S. (2021). Investigating thermal 
stratification in a vertical hot water storage tank 
under multiple transient operations. Energy 
Reports, 7, 7186–7199. ISSN: 23524847. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.egyr.2021.10.088
34 
Sauraw, A., Sharma, A. K., Fydrych, D., Sirohi, 
S., Gupta, A., Świerczyńska, A., … Rogalski, G. 
(2021). Study on microstructural characterization, 
mechanical properties and residual stress of gtaw 
dissimilar joints of p91 and p22 steels. Materials, 
14(21). ISSN: 19961944. https://doi.org/10.3390/
ma14216591
35 
Sheshkar, N., Verma, G., Pandey, C., Sharma, A. K., & 
Gupta, A. (2021). Enhanced thermal and mechanical 
properties of hydrophobic graphite-embedded 
polydimethylsiloxane composite. Journal of Polymer 
Research, 28(11). ISSN: 10229760. https://doi.
org/10.1007/s10965-021-02774-w
36 
Kumar, S., Kasyap, P., Pandey, C., Basu, B., & Nath, 
S. K. (2021). Role of heat inputs on microstructure 
and mechanical properties in coarse-grained 
heat-affected zone of bainitic steel. CIRP Journal 
of Manufacturing Science and Technology, 35, 
724–734. ISSN: 17555817. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
cirpj.2021.09.002
37 
Bhanu, V., Fydrych, D., Gupta, A., & Pandey, C. 
(2021). Study on microstructure and mechanical 
properties of laser welded dissimilar joint of p91 
steel and incoloy 800ht nickel alloy. Materials, 14(19). 
ISSN: 19961944. https://doi.org/10.3390/ma14195876
38 
Kumar, S., Sirohi, S., Vidyarthy, R. S., Gupta, A., 
& Pandey, C. (2021). Role of the Ni-based filler 
composition on microstructure and mechanical 
behavior of the dissimilar welded joint of P22 
and P91 steel. International Journal of Pressure 
Vessels and Piping, 193. ISSN: 03080161. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.ijpvp.2021.104473
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

39 
Khan, F., Mahajan, S., Khan, W. N., & Chhibber, 
R. (2021). Mechanical, microstructure, and hot 
corrosion investigations on P22/P91 dissimilar 
tungsten inert gas weld. Proceedings of the 
Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part L: 
Journal of Materials: Design and Applications, 
235(9), 2128–2141. ISSN: 14644207. https://doi.
org/10.1177/14644207211021941
40 
Kumar, S., Yadav, V., Sharma, S., Pandey, C., Goyal, 
A., & Kumar, P. (2021). Role of dissimilar Ni-based 
ERNiCrMo-3 filler on the microstructure, mechanical 
properties and weld induced residual stresses 
of the ferritic/martensitic P91 steel welds joint. 
International Journal of Pressure Vessels and 
Piping, 193. ISSN: 03080161. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
ijpvp.2021.104443
41 
Kishnani, V., Yadav, A., Mondal, K., & Gupta, A. 
(2021). Palladium-functionalized graphene for 
hydrogen sensing performance: theoretical 
studies. Energies, 14(18). ISSN: 19961073. https://doi.
org/10.3390/en14185738
42 
Taraphdar, P. K., Kumar, R., Pandey, C., & Mahapatra, 
M. M. (2021). Significance of Finite Element Models 
and Solid-State Phase Transformation on the 
Evaluation of Weld Induced Residual Stresses. 
Metals and Materials International, 27(9), 3478–
3492. ISSN: 15989623. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s12540-020-00921-4
43 
Jena, S., & Gupta, A. (2021). Sensitivity analysis 
of MEMS gyroscope for radar-based true north 
finding application. Int. Conf. Range Technol., ICORT. 
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 
Inc. ISBN: 9781665449564. https://doi.org/10.1109/
ICORT52730.2021.9581416
44 
Taraphdar, P. K., Kumar, R., Giri, A., Pandey, C., 
Mahapatra, M. M., & Sridhar, K. (2021). Residual 
stress distribution in thick double-V butt welds 
with varying groove configuration, restraints and 
mechanical tensioning. Journal of Manufacturing
45 
Pippara, R. K., Chauhan, P. S., Yadav, A., Kishnani, 
V., & Gupta, A. (2021). Room temperature hydrogen 
sensing with polyaniline/SnO2/Pd nanocomposites. 
Micro and Nano Engineering, 12. ISSN: 25900072. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mne.2021.100086
46 
Maurya, A. K., Pandey, C., & Chhibber, R. (2021). 
Dissimilar welding of duplex stainless steel with Ni 
alloys: A review. International Journal of Pressure 
Vessels and Piping, 192. ISSN: 03080161. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.ijpvp.2021.104439
47 
Khan, W. N., & Chhibber, R. (2021b). Experimental 
investigation on dissimilar weld between super 
duplex stainless steel 2507 and API X70 pipeline 
steel. Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical 
Engineers, Part L: Journal of Materials: Design and 
Applications, 235(8), 1827–1840. ISSN: 14644207. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/14644207211013056
48 
Adhithan, B., & Pandey, C. (2021). Study on effect 
of grain refinement of P92 steel base plate on 
mechanical and microstructural features of the 
welded joint. International Journal of Pressure 
Vessels and Piping, 192. ISSN: 03080161. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.ijpvp.2021.104426
49 
Sharma, L., Chhibber, R., & Bhandari, D. (2021). 
Effect of SAW fluxes on electrochemical corrosion 
& microstructural behavior of API X70 weldments. 
Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical 
Engineers, Part E: Journal of Process Mechanical 
Engineering, 235(4), 1140–1149. ISSN: 09544089. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/0954408921995699
50 
Kumar, M., Sharma, S., Verma, N., Jain, A., & Sharma, 
A. K. (2021). Design of a GPS Enabled Maximum 
Power Point Solar Tracker for Mobile Platform. Proc. 
Int. Conf. Commun. Electron. Syst., ICCES, 834–839. 
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 
Inc. ISBN: 9781665435871. https://doi.org/10.1109/
ICCES51350.2021.9488997
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

51 
Thakare, J. G., Pandey, C., Gupta, A., Taraphdar, 
P. K., & Mahapatra, M. M. (2021). Role of the 
heterogeneity in microstructure on the mechanical 
performance of the Autogenous Gas Tungsten 
Arc (GTA) welded dissimilar joint of F/M P91 and 
SS304L steel. Fusion Engineering and Design, 
168. ISSN: 09203796. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
fusengdes.2021.112616
52 
Thakare, J. G., Pandey, C., Mahapatra, M. M., & 
Mulik, R. S. (2021). Thermal Barrier Coatings—A 
State of the Art Review. Metals and Materials 
International, 27(7), 1947–1968. ISSN: 15989623. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12540-020-00705-w
53 
Saoji, S., Krishna, D., Sanap, V., Nagar, R., & 
Shah, S. V. (2021). Learning-based Approach 
for Estimation of Axis of Rotation for Markerless 
Visual Servoing to Tumbling Object. ACM Int. 
Conf. Proc. Ser. Association for Computing 
Machinery. ISBN: 9781450389716. https://doi.
org/10.1145/3478586.3478639
54 
Chaudhary, S., Patel, S. M., Dal, P. N., Joshi, S. 
K., Tripathy, N. S., & Shah, S. V. (2021). Robust 
Control Strategy for Reactionless Manoeuvring 
of a Dual-Arm Space Manipulator. ACM Int. 
Conf. Proc. Ser. Association for Computing 
Machinery. ISBN: 9781450389716. https://doi.
org/10.1145/3478586.3478621
55 
Patel, S. M., Gupta, S., & Shah, S. V. (2021). Motion 
Planning of Half-Humanoid in the Presence of 
Obstacle. ACM Int. Conf. Proc. Ser. Association 
for Computing Machinery. ISBN: 9781450389716. 
https://doi.org/10.1145/3478586.3478634
56 
Mahajan, S., Nawaz Khan, W., & Chhibber, R. 
(2021). CaO–CaF2–SiO2–Al2O3 system for 
development of SMAW electrodes with Ni alloy 
core wire. Ceramics International, 47(12), 17307–
17315. ISSN: 02728842. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
ceramint.2021.03.042
57 
Nighojkar, A., Plappally, A., & Soboyejo, W. O. (2021). 
Animated concept-in-context maps as a materials 
science learning resource in an online flipped 
classroom. MRS Advances, 6(13), 351–354. ISSN: 
20598521. https://doi.org/10.1557/s43580-021-
00069-2
58 
Kumar, S., Pandey, C., & Goyal, A. (2021). Effect of 
post-weld heat treatment and dissimilar filler metal 
composition on the microstructural developments, 
and mechanical properties of gas tungsten arc 
welded joint of P91 steel. International Journal of 
Pressure Vessels and Piping, 191. ISSN: 03080161. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpvp.2021.104373
59 
Rao, S. S., Arora, K. S., Sharma, L., & Chhibber, R. 
(2021). Investigations on Mechanical Behaviour 
and Failure Mechanism of Resistance Spot-Welded 
DP590 Steel Using Artificial Neural Network. 
Transactions of the Indian Institute of Metals, 74(6), 
1419–1438. ISSN: 09722815. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s12666-021-02237-2
60 
Phadatare, H. P., & Pratiher, B. (2021a). Large 
deflection model for rub-impact analysis in high-
speed rotor-bearing system with mass unbalance. 
International Journal of Non-Linear Mechanics, 
132. ISSN: 00207462. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
ijnonlinmec.2021.103702
61 
Bhandari, D., Chhibber, R., Sharma, L., Arora, N., 
& Mehta, R. (2021). Combining CaO–SiO2–TiO2 
and CaO–SiO2–Al2O3 ternary phase systems 
for design of bimetallic welds. Proceedings 
of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, 
Part B: Journal of Engineering Manufacture, 
235(8), 1271–1283. ISSN: 09544054. https://doi.
org/10.1177/0954405421995919
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

62 
Khurana, A., Sharma, A. K., & Joglekar, M. M. (2021). 
Nonlinear oscillations of electrically driven aniso-
visco-hyperelastic dielectric elastomer minimum 
energy structures. Nonlinear Dynamics, 104(3), 
1991–2013. ISSN: 0924090X. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s11071-021-06392-5
63 
Sirohi, S., Pandey, C., & Goyal, A. (2021b). Role 
of the Ni-based filler (IN625) and heat-treatment 
on the mechanical performance of the GTA 
welded dissimilar joint of P91 and SS304H 
steel. Journal of Manufacturing Processes, 65, 
174–189. ISSN: 15266125. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
jmapro.2021.03.029
64 
Raina, D., Gora, S., Maheshwari, D., & Shah, S. V. 
(2021). Impact modeling and reactionless control for 
post-capturing and maneuvering of orbiting objects 
using a multi-arm space robot. Acta Astronautica, 
182, 21–36. ISSN: 00945765. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
actaastro.2021.01.034
65 
Khan, W. N., & Chhibber, R. (2021c). Investigations 
on effect of CaO-CaF2-TiO2-SiO2 based electrode 
coating constituents and their interactions on weld 
chemistry. Ceramics International, 47(9), 12483–
12493. ISSN: 02728842. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
ceramint.2021.01.106
66 
Khan, W. N., & Chhibber, R. (2021a). Characterization 
of CaO-CaF2-TiO2-SiO2 Based Welding Slags for 
Physicochemical and Thermophysical Properties. 
Silicon, 13(5), 1575–1589. ISSN: 1876990X. https://
doi.org/10.1007/s12633-020-00537-8
67 
Khurana, A., Kumar, A., Sharma, A. K., & Joglekar, M. 
M. (2021a). Effect of polymer chains entanglements, 
crosslinks and finite extensibility on the nonlinear 
dynamic oscillations of dielectric viscoelastomer 
actuators. Nonlinear Dynamics, 104(2), 1227–1251. 
ISSN: 0924090X. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11071-021-
06328-z
68 
Verma, R., Arora, K. S., Sharma, L., & Chhibber, R. 
(2021). Experimental investigation on resistance 
spot welding of dissimilar weld joints. Proceedings 
of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part 
E: Journal of Process Mechanical Engineering, 
235(2), 505–513. ISSN: 09544089. https://doi.
org/10.1177/0954408920968351
69 
Mahajan, S., & Chhibber, R. (2021). High temperature 
molten salt corrosion investigations on P22/
P91 power plant dissimilar welds. Proceedings 
of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part 
E: Journal of Process Mechanical Engineering, 
235(2), 440–451. ISSN: 09544089. https://doi.
org/10.1177/0954408920966304
70 
Sharma, L., & Chhibber, R. (2021a). Experimental 
investigation of structural integrity behavior of High 
strength low alloy steel – Study of mechanical, 
microstructural and corrosion behavior of 
Submerged arc welding weldments. Proceedings 
of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part 
E: Journal of Process Mechanical Engineering, 
235(2), 266–273. ISSN: 09544089. https://doi.
org/10.1177/0954408920958104
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Name of the Faculty member Notable Achievements of Faculty Members and Students
Atul Kumar Sharma 1: Best Paper Award, European Journal of Computational Mechanics (2021)
Chandan Pandey 7. Selected in list of World Ranking of Top 2% Scientists” in 2021 database
(Published: 19 October 2021), Stanford University, US, 2021;
Hardik Kothadia 1. "2022 Teaching Excellence Award – IIT Jodhpur
Name of Student(s) Achievement
Meraj Ahmad, Ritwik Kulkarni,
Saurabh Yadav, S. M. S. M. Quadri Best Product Award, international e-conference on water source sustainability,
ICWSS 2021, IIT Roorkee
Meraj Ahmad Winner of the National Level Essay Competition - NSD2021BLR - Engineering
Education, Bangaluru
Arpit Sanwal Best Paper Award 2021, ICRM 2020, MG University, Kerala.
Pankaj Jakhar Starts Unnada Pvt Ltd, visit Horticulture | Unnada.com | जोधपुर
Chander Veer Best Poster Award in WOST-2022 organized by IIT Jodhpur
Faculty/ Department Laurels
Student Laurels
The following laboratories are functioning in the Department of mechanical Engineering:
1. Advanced Manufacturing
The advanced manufacturing laboratory houses CNC Machine Tools, 3-D Printers and manufacturing simulation 
software to support academic and research activities in the domain of CNC Machine Tools, CAD/CAM, New product 
development and Smart Manufacturing. The laboratory supports the academic activities of the department in the 
above-mentioned areas. The research groups associated with the laboratory has developed physics-based process 
models for machining operations using computational tools and validated the same using experimental facilities 
available in-house. The laboratory also facilitates the development of prototypes for various applications ranging 
from mechanical, automotive, aerospace and healthcare industries using 3-D printing technology. Considering 
recent impetus to Industry 4.0, the laboratory is expanding to develop indigenous technological solutions to 
implement smart manufacturing for various processes.
The Advanced Manufacturing Laboratory is equipped with the following facilities:
1.	
CNC Machine Tools and Smart Manufacturing
2. 3-axis CNC Vertical Machining Center
3. On-Machine Probing System
4. Table mounted Dynamometer
5. 3-D Printer
6. 
Polyjet 3-D Printer 7.	
Fused Deposition 
Modeling 3-D Printer (2 Nos.)
8. Computer-Aided Designing and Analysis
9. ANSYS
10. DEFORM - 3D
11. SolidWorks
12. Creo
13. AutoCAST
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

2. Central Workshop
The central workshop is the central facility of Institute, consisting of various workshops such as Welding 
shop, Carpentry shop, Fitting shop, Sheet metal shop, Foundry and Heat treatment shop and Machine shop. 
Undergraduate Students get hands-on experience in the above sections by doing the job work and carrying out 
projects as part of their coursework and also students utilize the facilities for fabrication purpose of their academic 
projects. It also supports the R&D projects of the institute handled by various faculty members and PhD and M.Tech. 
thesis work of research scholars by providing them assistance in the fabrication of their research set-ups. The 
following machines and equipment are available in the Central Workshop:
1.	
Welding Fume Extraction Down Draft Table,	
	
	
11. Hand-operated Circle Cutting Machine,
2. Multi-process Welding Equipment, 
	
	
	
12. Hydraulic Shearing Machine,
3. Portable Single Phase MIG/MAG,	
	
	
	
	
13. Portable Heating Plant,
4. AC/DC Welding Equipment, 
	
	
	
	
	
14. Portable Hardening plant,
5. MIG/MAG Welding Equipment, 
	
	
	
	
15. Forging Heating Plant,
6. Treadle-operated Shearing Machine,	
	
	
	
16. Aluminum Melting Plant,
7.	
Hand-operated Folding Machine,	
	
	
	
	
17. Fitting Table,
8. Kaizen Muffle Furnace, 
	
	
	
	
	
	
18. Mould Making Facility, and
9. Hand-operated Jeeny or Burying Machine 
	
19. Portable Tool Grinder.
10. Motorized Circle Cutting Machine
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

3. Industrial Engineering Laboratory
4. Metrology Laboratory
The industrial engineering lab in the department 
of 
mechanical 
engineering 
consists 
of 
several 
experimental set up covering different domains of the 
subject. Experiments in the curriculum are designed 
for better understanding of Value engineering and 
value analysis. Students are given real-time exposure 
of quality control with experimental data used to 
prepare control charts, such as X, R, σ, C, P and nP. The 
laboratory has the following experiment kits to perform 
several laboratory activities:
•
Finger dexterity test.
•
Tweezer dexterity test.
•
Grooved keyhole pegboard
•
Purdue pegboard.
The experiments and activities of Industrial engineering 
lab are closely aligned with the theoretical teaching, so 
as to give necessary hands-on exposure to students.
The Metrology Laboratory facilitates the academic and 
research activities associated with the understanding 
of various measuring and inspection activities 
for manufactured components. The laboratory 
encompasses a set of classical measuring and 
gauging instruments, computer-controlled measuring 
machines and associated software to determine 
appropriate dimensional and geometric tolerances for 
the components. The laboratory facilitates the conduct 
of well-designed experiments to familiarize students 
with working of measuring tools, equipment and quality 
control procedures.
The Metrology Laboratory is equipped with the 
following facilities:
•
Tool Maker Microscope
•
Profile Projector
•
Autocollimator
•
Optical Interferometer
•
CNC Form and Roughness Measuring Machine
•
Coordinate Measuring Machine
•
MCOSMOS
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

5. Dynamics of Machine Laboratory
Kinematics and Dynamics Laboratory has been designed to primarily focus on mechanism and dynamic analysis of 
the mechanical system in helping the students to understand the behaviour of the various mechanisms and forces 
acting on them. This lab is well equipped with various mechanisms and machines such as Motorised Gyroscope 
Apparatus, Static and Dynamic, Balancing Apparatus, Universal Governor Apparatus, Coriolis Component of 
Acceleration Apparatus, Epicyclic Gear Train Apparatus, Cam Analysis Machine Apparatus, Universal Vibration 
Apparatus, Stroboscope, and Tachometer.
6. Helicopter Laboratory
Helicopter Laboratory mainly focuses on the development of hover capable aerial vehicles with autonomous 
capabilities. At present, hover capable configurations of vehicles available are quadrotors and conventional mini-
helicopters. The major area of research focus is on the development of indigenous autopilot system consisting of 
microcontrollers, sensors, actuators and wireless communication, data processing, control, navigation algorithms. 
In addition, several test rigs have been developed for the characterization of brushless motors, and for testing the 
control algorithm for stabilization of quadrotors. Development of mathematical formulation for various maneuvers in 
auto mode, and implementation and flight testing of the vehicle in an outdoor environment are other key areas of 
research undertaken in this laboratory. The software architecture and source code for all tasks are fully developed 
in this lab. Further, the lab also aims at the design and development of mechanical hardware of multi-rotors and 
helicopters.
•
Quadrotor Platforms
•
Conventional Mini-helicopters
•
Control Rigs for Multirotors
•
Setup for Motor Characteristic Estimation
•
Oscilloscope
•
Variable Voltage and Current DC Supply Unit
At present the equipment available in the Helicopter Lab of the institute are:
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

7. Mechatronics laboratory
Mechatronics and IoT lab at IIT Jodhpur is established to impart state of the Art interfacing of mechanical systems 
with sensors, actuators and microcontrollers. The projects include microcontroller and internet of things (IoT) based 
design of consumer appliances, healthcare and transportation and automotive domain.
The UG laboratory equipment and projects include:
•
Dissection and assembly of consumer appliances
•
Creating the Internet of things-based applications using microcontrollers
•
Prototype solar tracker using microcontrollers
•
Programmable logic controller (PLC) and Pneumatic circuits
•
Programmable logic controller for material handling system (conveyor belt)
•
Quanser CUBE servo control design with QUARC real-time interface
•
Hardware in the loop (HIL) simulations and rapid prototyping with dSPACE
•
Applications of computer vision and deep learning in mechatronics
•
Sensors and Internet of things
•
Software packages such as MATLAB, OpenCV, ADAMS, ANSYS, SOLIDWORKS, Pro-E
•
Soldiering Station
•
NI PXI System
•
Atmel and Arm microcontroller development boards
•
Lord MicroStrain IMU
•

MEMS sensors such as accelerometer, gyroscope, 
magnetometer, barometer
•
GPS receivers and sonar
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

8. Robotics Laboratory
•

The Robotics Laboratory is a part of Mechanical Engineering Department at Indian Institute of Technology at 
Jodhpur.
•

Robotics laboratory is integral part of M.Tech. in Advanced Manufacturing and Design offered by the department 
where students get exposed to kinematic, dynamics, motion planning, programming, and control of robots.
•

The laboratory focuses on research problems and innovative projects that extend the state of the art in robotics. 
The laboratory's research work is in the areas of Space Robots, Motion Planning, Vision based Control, Robot 
Mechanism Design and Computational Dynamics. The laboratory is equipped with diverse robot platforms and 
advanced sensors.
9. Vibration Laboratory
Vibration and Control laboratory has been established with the objective of measuring the vibration characteristics 
and subsequent control for vibrating the machine or structures. This lab offers various experimental techniques 
and principles to study vibration analysis and control strategies. This lab is well equipped with various testing, 
measuring, and monitoring equipment for conducting the experiments and demonstrations for teaching and 
research purposes.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

10. Fluid Mechanics and Turbomachinery Laboratory
Fluid mechanics lab aims to provide hands-on 
exposure to students on various experimental flow 
measurement techniques. Students are introduced with 
the experimental flow prediction of a wide range of 
practical problems such as frictional flow through pipes, 
prediction of various aerodynamic coefficients over 
subsonic airfoils, wake flows, jet flows, turbulent flows in 
pipe etc. The laboratory also aims to provide a practical 
feel on the different fluid dynamic concepts involved in 
the measurement of various flow field parameters like 
velocity, pressure, flow rate etc.
The various facilities available at the institute Fluid 
Mechanics lab are as follows:
•
Subsonic Wind Tunnel
•
Pipe Friction Apparatus
•
Reynolds Apparatus
•
PIV simulator
•
Various Flow Measurement devices
The turbomachines lab introduces students with 
various hydraulic turbomachines and their operational 
characteristics. The lab consists of test rigs for various 
hydraulic turbines and centrifugal pump. The miniature 
turbomachine units are mounted on a test bench with 
closed water circuit. A transparent cover provides a 
direct view of the turbomachine in operation and thus 
clearly illustrates the interaction of guide apparatus, 
water flow and runner. The test rigs are equipped with 
a volume flow meter, pressure sensors at the inlet and 
outlet pipes, tachometer and brake drum dynamometer 
which can be used to measure the input power, runner 
speed and torque and are shown using electronic 
display boards. Characteristics curves and performance 
curves for various hydraulic machines at various speeds 
can thus be evaluated. The various facilities available at 
the institute Turbomachines lab are as follows:
•
Pelton Turbine (Impulse hydraulic turbine)
•
Francis Turbine (Reaction hydraulic turbine)
•
Centrifugal Pump
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

11. Heat Transfer Laboratory
The objectives of Heat Transfer Lab is to provide the practical knowledge with regard to the determination of the 
rate of heat exchange in various modes of heat transfer and to provide practical exposer to various temperature 
measurement instruments and its working principle. In the Heat Transfer Lab, students can expect to measure the 
temperature of objects using different temperature measurement instruments, measure the heat transfer properties 
of various metals, understand basic laws of radiation heat transfer, compare the performance of different convection 
processes. Students can expect to gain knowledge of heat transfer in solar thermal applications.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

12. Energy Conversion Laboratory
Energy Conversion Lab aimed to improve the thermal performance of energy transfer processes. Knowledge of 
thermal performance of equipment helps to enhance efficiency from power-producing devices like thermal power 
plants, nuclear power plant, automobile engines as well as refrigeration devices. Knowledge of heat transfer is the 
key to this goal.
In recent times, research in this field has become more toward industrial applications and includes fields that are at 
the borderline of Physics. As manufacturing has become miniaturized, the study of heat transfer at the micro and 
nanoscale has become extremely important. The miniaturization of components provides enormous increment in 
the heat dissipation capacity of devices in engineering applications. The quest for enhanced heat removal leads 
researchers to two-phase flow and specialized surface modifications to enhance the heat transfer without leading 
to a pressure penalty. The intimate relation of the field with energy production has led to significant research in solar 
while also exploring the use of waste heat for industrial process implementation.
In the Energy Conversion Lab, students can expect to work on the industrial and most contemporary problems in 
each of these fields.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

13. Automotive Propulsion
The increasing demand for vehicles worldwide 
is driving research for efficient and low emission 
automotive propulsion solutions. This lab aims to train 
today’s engineers to basic and emerging technologies 
in automobiles. The lab is equipped with:
•

Fuel quality measurement: Flashpoint apparatus, 
Bomb calorimeter,
•

IC Engine rigs: Multicylinder petrol engine, 
Multicylinder diesel engine
•
Emission analyzer: AVL CDS 450
•
In-cylinder diagnostics: Kistler box
•
Cut section models: 2-S Engine, 4-S engine
•

Combustion physics: Cantera, ANSYS FORTE, 
FLUENT
•
IC Engine simulation: Lotus Engine Simulation
•
EV simulation: AmeSIM
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

14. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Laboratory
In the refrigeration and air conditioning lab, students 
assess various kinds of refrigeration systems such 
as vapour compression, vapour absorption, vortex 
tube, etc and evaluate their performance. They study 
the characteristics of heating and ventilation and 
analyze psychrometric processes. The cut section 
models of hermetically sealed rotary and reciprocating 
compressors are available to provide a thorough 
knowledge of various components, their purpose and 
maintenance. The disassembled window air-conditioner 
and a domestic refrigerator are also present to impart a 
practical understanding of their working principles. The 
lab is equipped with the following facilities:
1. Vapour compression test rig
2. Vapour absorption test rig
3. Vortex tube cooling apparatus
4. Ventilation and air distribution setup
5. 
Cut sections of rotary and reciprocating 
compressors
6. 
Disassembled window air conditioner and domestic 
refrigerator
7. Psychrometer
8. Steam jet injection test rig
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

15. Gas Dynamics Laboratory
The Gas Dynamics Laboratory introduce students with 
various high-speed flow scenarios and experimental 
measurement techniques. This lab intends to provide 
students with the fundamental knowledge of supersonic 
flows through various devices like, nozzles, diffusers, 
compression and expansion corners etc. The students 
are also exposed to the fundamentals of aerodynamic 
shock waves and its reflection characteristics. The fluid 
dynamics at high-speed flows are particularly important 
in aerospace propulsion and defense sector and this 
lab this lab aims to give a flavor of various high speed 
flow applications in these sectors. The various teaching 
lab experiments conducted at this lab are as follows:
1.	

Nozzle flow experiments using blow-down open jet 
tunnel.
2. Mowing shock wave experiment using Shock Tube
3. 
Shock Wave reflection studies using supersonic 
wind tunnel.
4. 
Underexpanded and Overexpanded jets in 
supersonic nozzles
5. 
Schlieren and Shadowgraph Visualization for High-
Speed Flows
6. Computational Gas Dynamics
Blowdown Open Jet Tunnel
Outreach
Department of Mechanical Engineering
1. 
A field workshop for Potters of Bhim, Rajsamand District, in June 2021 was conducted by ME PhD students 
Pankaj Jakhar, Sunil Duhan . The news of the same can be observed here https://www.youtube.com/
watch?v=N7wcMQ_hD5I
2. 
The NGO Arpan Seva Sansthan has an MOU with IIT Jodhpur. Technology transfer of G filter and Sub-
surface porous vessels was performed.
3. 
ME Industry Day: Speakers invited from various segments of industry. The event concluded with a panel 
discussion
4. 
First tile drainage pilot installation for a spice farmer with more than 2 Acre farmland in Paravoor Panchayat, 
Alappuzha District, Kerala to prevent flooding based erosion by Sunil Duhan and Pankaj Jakhar. This is a 
technology from lab-to-land demonstration site.
5. 
Open House ME dept.: School students in Jodhpur were invited to visit various laboratories in the dept. 
Games, quizzes etc were organized.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start Date End Date
1 Development of Highly Efficient
Low Cost Insulation for power
plants MHRD Sudipto
Mukhopadhyay H93,47,000 27-Mar-19 26-Mar-23
2 Unnat Bhart Abhiyan (RCI) IIT Delhi Anand K.
Plapally H5,00,000 31-Mar-19 31-Mar-26
3 Development of lead free
piezoelectric based Nano-
generator: Modeling, Simulator
and Experimental Realization SERB Barun Pratiher H53,53,832 23-May-19 22-May-
22
4 Development of Paired Neck
Chamber Device for Assessment
of Baroreflex Sensitivity DST Kaushal A.
Desai H26,32,344 01-Aug-19 31-Jul-21
5 Design and Analysis of Indigenous
Autopilot System for Quadrotor DRDO C Venkatesan H9,96,000 01-Dec-19 26-Feb-21
6 Development of Light-weight
and Flexible Multi-link Robotic
Manipulator Mounted on Mobile
Platform: Modelling, Simulation
and Physical Realization SERB Barun Pratiher H39,64,240 21-Nov-19 20-Nov-
22
7 Mitigation of weldability issues
and residual stresses in dissimilar
welded joints of ultra-supercritical
power plants SERB Chandan
Pandey H25,26,980 01-Jan-20 30-Apr-22
8 Shock Wave Interaction with
Various Interfaces DST Arun Kumar R H35,00,000 03-Oct-18 02-Oct-23
9 Reactionless Manoeuvring and
Visual Servoing for Space Flying
Robot and Half Humanoid ISRO Suril V. Shah H43,86,000 01-Jun-20 31-May-22
10 Dynamic Studies for Half-
humanoid and Spaceflying Robot ISRO Suril V. Shah H16,84,000 01-Jun-20 31-May-22
11 Multiphysics Modeling & Analysis
of Energy Technologies & Systems MHRD Shobhana Singh H5,68,000 14-Mar-20 14-Aug-20
12 Design and Development of
Indigenous On-board Autopilot
and Vision-based Navigation
Systems for Autonomous Flight
of Hover Capable Rotary-wing
Vehicles SERB Suril V. Shah H46,22,200 20-Mar-20 19-Mar-23
Projects
Sponsored Projects
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start Date End Date
13 Personal Use facial fit trails of
reusable ceramic respirators being
manufactured at Bhopalgarh for
use towards preventing spread of
air borne diseases. MHRD Anand K.
Plapally H89,500 03-Jul-20 02-Jan-21
14 Design of ice freezing type heat
exchanger and optimization of
size, weight and power of heat
exchanger DRDO Hardik Kothadia H9,88,800 01-Aug-20 23-Oct-21
15 Understanding The Deformation
Mechanisms Under In-Plane
Shear and Role of Pre-Twining on
Formability Behavior of AZ31-Xca
Mg Alloy Sheets SERB Jaiveer Singh H32,98,570 24-Nov-20 23-Nov-
22
16 Owl-inspired aerodynamic noise
reduction of a flapping wing
unmanned aerial vehicle SERB Nipun Arora H29,48,000 03-Dec-20 02-Dec-
22
17 Input Shaping Control Strategies
for Mitigating Residual Vibrations
and Viscoelastic Creep in
Electrically Driven Dielectric
Elastomer Actuators DST-Inspire Atul Kumar
Sharma H35,00,000 01-Dec-20 30-Nov-
25
18 Highly conductive nanocomposite
fibers for flexible temperature
sensors (Flextem) SERB-SRG Shrutidhara
Sarma H27,60,340 03-Dec-20 02-Dec-
22
19 Lab-On-Paper for inexpensive
point of care diagnostics SERB-SRG Ankur Gupta H32,37,810 19-Dec-20 18-Dec-22
20 Design and development of a
micro turbine combustor working
on biogas Petroleum
Conservation
Research
Association
(PCRA) Sudipto
Mukhopadhyay H24,98,000 23-Aug-21 22-Aug-
23
21 Multiphysics simulations to
design efficient heat exchangers
for automotive thermoelectric
generators DRDO
Jodhpur Shobhana Singh H15,18,000 23-Nov-21 22-Nov-
22
22 Numerical Modeling and
Experimental Characterization
of Dynamic Behavior of Soft
Dielectric Elastomer Minimum
Energy Structures SERB-SRG Atul Kumar
Sharma H32,98,900 23-Dec-21 22-Dec-
23
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start Date End Date
1 Short term course on Helicopter
dynamics and handling qualities DRDO Suril V. Shah H3,72,125 15-Feb-17 14-Feb-20
2 Visual Servoing of Mobile
Manipulator with application
to smart warehouse and smart
factory Tata
Consultancy
Limited Suril V. Shah H10,12,440 01-Jul-17 30-Jun-18
3 Helicopter Dynamics and Handling
Quality ASTE
Bangalore C. Venkatesan H3,42,495 10-Dec-18 14-Dec-18
4 01 mw Micro grid based solar
power plant at Military Station
Brichgunj (Portblair) under Military
engineering services Portblair RAMA
Refelection
Pvt. Ltd. Barun Pratiher H70,880 10-Sep-19 NA
5 Modeling of Laser Ignition of Coal GE India
Industrial Pvt.
Ltd Sudipto
Mukhopadhyay H1,53,400 02-Jul-20 01-Jan-21
6 External Advisor to Pearson UK Pearson UK B. Ravindra H0
S.
No Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start Date End Date
1 Ishaan Vikas Program 2016 IIT Guwahati/
MHRD Barun Pratiher H2,57,000 04-Jul-16 16-Jul-16
2 ICSSP Conference ICSSP Ravi K R H3,19,916 06-Aug-19 31-Dec-21
Sl.
No. Project
No. Project Title Sponsoring
Agency Category
of Project Principal
Investigator Sanctioned
Amount
(Rs.) Start
Date Duration
/ Expiry
Date Date of
Actual
Closure
1 S/DST/
SVS/
20150026 Hybrid reactionless
manipulation and
visual serving
of a satellite
mounted robot for
autonomous on orbit
services DST Sponsored
Research
Project Suril V. Shah H35,00,000 27- 28-Nov-18 30-Sep-
Jan-16 21
Consultancy Projects
Other Projects
Closed Projects
Outcome: The research work was undertaken to develop a novel and generic reactionless visual servo controller 
for a satellite-based multi-arm space robot. The problem of algorithmic singularity was also mitigated by proposing 
path planning for reactionless visual servoing of a redundant dual-arm space robot through exploration in the image 
space. A lightweight and modular test-bed for a planar space robot was successfully built. The research work also 
emphasized on performing experiments to model the robot more accurately and further validation of the numerical 
results, obtained on planar reactionless visual servoing using the in-house experimental setup. In order to validate 
the path planning framework, a 14-DOF dual arm space robot was considered with each robot having 7 Degrees-of-
freedom.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S. No. Theme area Focus
1. Structural Materials Materials Processing, Additive Manufacturing, Phase Transformations, Deformation
Behavior and Microstructure evolution, Failure of Materials, High Temperature
Materials, Materials Degradation.
2. Functional Materials Electronic Materials, Energy Materials, Smart Materials, Battery Materials,
Electrochemistry, Biomaterials.
3. Computational
Materials
Engineering Computational Thermodynamics, Alloy Design, First-Principles Calculation,
Molecular Dynamics, Energy Materials Modelling, Scientific Computation,
Data Structure and Algorithms, Machine learning in Materials Design, Material
Informatics.
4. Process Metallurgy Iron and Steel making, Non-ferrous Metal Extraction techniques, Principles of
Process Metallurgy, Kinetics of Metallurgical Processes.
Department of Metallurgical and 
Materials Engineering
1. Introduction
The 
Department 
of 
Metallurgical 
and 
Materials 
Engineering 
at IIT Jodhpur was established in 2017 with a vision of 
imparting high-quality education in the areas of Materials 
Engineering to address continuously evolving demands 
of new materials in the fast-evolving sectors such as, 
energy, aerospace, defence, healthcare, transport, etc. 
The department is committed to high-quality education 
and research in the broad area of Materials Engineering. 
The department continuously strives for excellence in 
teaching and research through innovative pedagogy
and curriculum, by undertaking interdisciplinary projects, 
and through active collaborations with industries, R&D 
labs, and academia. By enabling the students to think 
independently and equipping them with relevant skill 
sets, our goal is to encourage the graduates to innovate 
and address present-day materials challenges to meet 
the needs of the country. The department is currently 
offering degree programs namely, B.Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D. 
and M.Tech.-Ph.D. in Materials Engineering which are 
designed through a unique combination of foundational 
courses, core courses and electives from the following 
four thematic areas or streams:
2. Faculty Details
The Faculty Members in the department have expertise in diverse areas of Materials Engineering. They are actively 
involved in conducting translational research in the fundamental and applied areas of Materials Engineering. 
The department frequently organizes invited lectures and workshops to share research findings, train students
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Faculty Members
Bhagwati P. Kashyap
Head of Department
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Thermo-mechanical treatment and 
Super-plasticity, Creep and low 
temperature deformation, Light metals 
and alloy development
Abir Bhattacharyya
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Mechanical Behavior of Materials, 
Fatigue of Bearing Steels, High-
strain rate Deformation of Materials, 
Indentation Response of Materials
Saurabh Nene
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Alloy Design, High Entropy Alloys, 
Mechanical behaviour of Materials, 
Severe Plastic Deformation
Srijan Sengupta
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Lithium ion batteries, Corrosion, 
Electrochemistry, Hydrogen 
production
Ravi K. R.
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Additive Manufacturing, Self-cleaning 
coating, Computational Approach in 
Alloy Design, Biomaterials
Appala Naidu Gandi
Specialization/ Research interest: 
First Principles Calculations: 
Thermoelectric Transport, Lattice 
Dynamics, Mechanical Behaviour, 
Battery Materials; Phase Filed 
Modelling
Jaiveer Singh
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Microstructure/texture evolutions, 
Plastic deformations in HCP materials, 
Structure-property-processing 
correlations; Thermo-mechanical 
processing, Mg alloys, Biomaterials.
on the state of the art experimental and computational techniques to promote the development of skill sets. The 
Department welcomes bright people who aspire to utilize the power of ambitious research and teaching to shape a 
better future.
Following are the details of the faculty members associated with the Department:
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Nitin Kumar Sharma
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Phase Transformations, Grain 
Boundary Engineering, Thermo-
mechanical Processing, Electron 
Microscopy, Atom Probe Tomography, 
Computational thermodynamics
Pranay Ranjan
Specialization/ Research interest: 
2D materials, their hybrids and 
hetero-structures, Semiconductor 
Devices, Gas Sensors, Environmental 
Remediation, Water Desalination/
Filtration
Amitava Banerjee
Specialization/ Research interest: 
DFT, Molecular Dynamics, Crystal 
structures prediction, Hydrogen, and 
oxygen evolution reaction (HER, OER), 
2D catalysts, Solar cell, 2D anodes, 
Battery Thermodynamics and Kinetics 
modeling, Defect engineering, Oxide 
growth
Devendra Singh Negi
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Experimental and computational 
electron microscopy, Thermoelectric 
materials, quantum materials, Density 
functional theory calculations, EMCD
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Phase transformations, High 
strength bainitic/martensitic steels, 
Thermomechanical processing, 
Microstructure-property correlation
The following faculty members joined the department during FY 2021-22:
3. Academic Programmes
The department is currently offering the following 
degree programs:
•
B.Tech in Materials Engineering
•
M.Tech. in Materials Engineering
•
B.Tech - M.Tech Dual Degree
•
M.Sc - M.Tech Dual Degree
•
M.Tech.- Ph.D. Dual Degree
4. Faculty / Department 
Laurels
•

Dr. Saurabh Nene is conferred with INDO-ASIAN 
Distinguished Research Excellence Award 2022 
conferred by RED TALKS International on February 
28th, 2022.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

1. Universal Testing Machine (Up to 100 kN) 13. Polishing Machines
2. Micro-hardness Tester 14. Spin Coater
3. Metallurgical Microscopes with Software 15. Jominy End-Quench Test
4. Stereo-zoom Microscope 16. Notch-Broaching Machine
5. Density balance 17. Charpy Impact Test for Plastics
6. Muffle furnaces 18. Beam deflection unit
7. Vacuum Oven with pump 19. Polarimeter
8. Induction Melting Furnace 20. FDM 3D printer
9. Hot Mounting Press 21. Stereolithography – 3D printer
10. Precision Diamond Cutting Machine 22. Magnetic Stirrer with hot plate
11. Bend-saw Cutting Machine 23. Ultrasonic Cleaner
12. High Speed Grinder 24. Oven (Microwave)
5. Laboratories and 
equipment
The following laboratories are functioning in the 
Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering:
Materials and Mechanics Laboratory
Materials and Mechanics Laboratory is a teaching and 
research facility in the department of Metallurgical and
Materials Engineering consisting of various facilities 
for material testing, heat treatment, melting, mechanics 
and metallography etc. This lab provides facilities to 
test samples of different types of materials to find out 
their mechanical properties like modulus of elasticity, 
tensile and compressive strengths, stress-strain curve, 
bending properties, hardness etc. It also supports the 
R&D projects of the institute handled by various Faculty 
Members, Ph.D. thesis work and M.Tech. thesis work of 
research scholars.
The laboratory has following testing equipment:
Mounting and Precision Cutting Machine 
Polishing Machine
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Metallographic Sample Preparation
Microstructural Observation
Additive Manufacturing
Lathe Machine
Drilling and Cutting Machine
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Universal Hardness Tester
100 kN Universal Testing Machine
Heat Treatment Laboratory
The heat treatment Laboratory has state of the art 
research facilities to carry out heat treatments of a 
variety of materials like steel, aluminium alloys, Ti 
alloys and high entropy alloys (HEAs). There are 
different types of furnaces installed in the lab starting 
from conventional muffle furnaces, vacuum tubular 
furnaces and low temperature vacuum ovens. There 
are fumehood and microscopy facilities also set up 
for performing complete heat treatment experiments. 
Following are the equipment details of the lab:
1.	
High temperature tubular furnace (1600°C)
2. Muffle furnace
3. Horizontal tubular furnace (1400°C)
4. Vertical tubular furnace (1200°C)
5. Vacuum oven with pump (250°C)
6. 
Jominy end quench test apparatus with hardness 
tester
7.	
Fume hood
Mechanical Testing Laboratory
The Mechanical Testing Laboratory has state of the art research facilities to carry out studies on quasi-static 
deformation of materials at macro and micro length scales. The facilities consist of Electromechanical Universal 
Testing Machine (100 kN load capacity) capable of carrying mechanical testing in cryogenic (up to -70°C) and 
elevated temperatures (up to 1100°C). The Universal Testing Machine is also equipped with customized fixtures to 
carry out experiments under compression, and three point bending. The laboratory also has a Universal Hardness 
Testing Machine, and a Vickers Microhardness Testing machine. While the Universal hardness testing machine can 
be used to carry out hardness measurements beyond 0.5 kg load, the microhardness testing machine can be used 
to carry out indentations as low as 1 g load. This lab is used for teaching and research.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Computational Materials Engineering Laboratory
The Computational Materials Engineering laboratory supports teaching and research activities in the domain 
of computational materials engineering. It is equipped with a server, fourteen workstations, and ten desktop 
computers. The softwares required for studying materials at different length scales are installed in these facilities. 
These include first-principles calculations-based codes Quantum Espresso and VASP, Molecular dynamics codes 
LAMMPS and xmd, Engineering and Multiphysics packages ANSYS, COMSOL Multiphysics, Materials selection 
software CES Selector and CES Edupack, and thermodynamic property calculator ThermoCalc with Steel, Mg, 
High Entropy alloy databases. Tutorials and laboratories based on computer exercises are conducted in this 
facility. Our research focuses on understanding mechanical behavior, thermoelectric transport, lattice dynamics in 
materials, and energy materials design such as catalysts for solar fuel, organic green battery electrodes, etc. We 
also characterized the materials by calculating the Infra-Red and Raman spectra, and simulated scanning tunneling 
microscopic images.
Computational Materials Engineering Laboratory
Structural Materials Research Laboratory
With an emphasis on structure-property correlations in novel and established metallic alloy systems, structural 
materials research lab primarily works in the broader fields of physical and mechanical metallurgy. The lab 
has competence in creating and processing ultralight Mg and Ti based alloys for automotive, aerospace, and 
biomedical applications, among other standard metallic alloy systems. A bigger portion of the group is primarily 
focused on the design and processing of multifunctional, microstructurally flexible high entropy alloys (HEAs), 
which is a dynamic yet challenging area of metallurgy in recent times. The majority of this activity entails modelling 
and experimenting tasks. Thermodynamic predictions for phase stability, the impact of slight changes in the
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

concentrations of constituent elements in the alloy 
compositions on thermodynamic factors are carried 
out by modelling. The experimentation on these newly 
designed HEAs entails fabrication, thermo-mechanical 
processing followed by mechanical and microstructural 
characterization.
The structural materials research laboratory is equipped 
with the following facilities:
1. 
Thermo-Calc v2022a software (TCFE9, TCHEA4, 
TCTI3 databases)
2. 
Vacuum arc melting furnace with suction casting 
facility (0.5 kg capacity, 10-5, 1440 C)
3. 
Universal Testing Machine (UTM) (25 kN capacity 
and a unique facility of performing tensile tests on 
2mm gauge length tensile specimen)
4. 
Muffle furnace (maximum attainable temperature of 
1400°C)
5. Hot mounting setup
6. Grinding and polishing machine
7. Lab scale rolling mill (under procurement)
8. 
Leica optical microscope (50X, 100X, 200X, 500X 
and 1000X magnification)
9. TSL-OIM v8 software
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sl.
No. Title Sponsoring
Authority Type Organizers Dates
1. 4th International Multiconferences in
Advances in Science and Engineering
Technology (ASET) IEEE IC Higher College
of Technology 21-24 Feb
2022
2. Workshop on Sensors based
Innovations and Start-ups-
Opportunities and Challenges IEEE NW IITJ 3-4 Dec.
2021
Title Organization Type Dates Chaired/co-
chaired
3. Characterization of Functional
Electronics Materials through FTIR and
UV-Vis Spectroscopy KL University Guest Lecture 2nd March
2022 Invited
Speaker
Outreach Activities
The following Outreach activities have been undertaken by the faculty members of the department During the 
FY 2021-2022:
1.	

Dr. Pranay Ranjan did outreach activities at Government School, Pahari, Bharatpur, Rajasthan on the eve of 
National Science Day from 28th Feb to 3rd March 2022.
2. 
Dr. Saurabh Nene is continuing the official collaboration with Prof. M.H. Tsai, Associate Professor, Department 
of Materials Science and Engineering, National Chung Hsing University (NCHU)Taichung, Taiwan to work in the 
field of High Entropy Alloy(HEA) Design.
3. 
Dr. Saurabh Nene is continuing the official collaboration with Prof. Sheng Guo, Chalmers University of 
Technology, Sweden to work in the area of defect induced plasticity in HEAs.
4. 
Dr. Saurabh Nene is continuing the official collaboration with Prof. Satyam Suwas, IISc Bangalore to work in the 
area of alloy design and texture modification.
5. 
Dr. Abir Bhattacharyya is continuing the official collaboration with CSIR-National Metallurgical Laboratory in the 
area of multiaxial fatigue, and residual stress measurement.
6. 
Dr. Abir Bhattacharyya is continuing the official collaboration with Indira Gandhi Centre for Atomic Research 
(IGCAR), DAE in the area of low cycle fatigue of nuclear steels.
7.	
Dr. Jaiveer Singh is mentoring the Churu district, Rajasthan under Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) RCI IIT Jodhpur.
8. 
Dr. Jaiveer Singh is continuing the official collaboration with Prof. Shi-Hoon Choi, Sunchon National University, 
Suncheon, Korea in the area of formability behavior of Mg alloys.
9. 
Dr. Jaiveer Singh is continuing the official collaboration with Hindustan Zinc Limited (HZL) subsidiary of Vedanta 
Limited in the area of design and development of Mg alloys.
10. 
Dr. Amitava Banerjee, along with the departmental colleagues organized the virtual PG open house 2022 at 
MME department.
Conference/Seminar/Workshop Presentations
Dr. Pranay Ranjan
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Title Organization Type Dates Chaired/co-chaired
1. Short Term Course on “ADDITIVE
MANUFACTURING AND
CHARACTERISATION” Chennai Institute
of Technology,
Chennai Short Term
Course 21st-25th Feb.
2022 Invited Talk
2. HEA 2021 TMS, USA ICP 4-8th Dec. 2021 Oral Presentation
3. International conference on Powder
Metallurgy 2022 (PMAI-PM 22) PMAI, India ICP 18-21st April
2022 Invited Talk
4. Advanced Technologies in
Dissimilar Metal Welding (DMW-
2022) DAE-BRNS theme
meeting, BARC
Mumbai ICP 15-16th July
2022 Invited Talk
Sl.
No. Title Organization Type Dates Chaired/co-
chaired
1. Virtual International Conference on
Product Design, Development, and
Deployment (PD3 - 2021) VIT Vellore IC September 11-12,
2021 Chaired
Sl.
No. Title Sponsoring
Authority Type Organizers Dates
1. In-Situ Nanomechanical Testing &
Property Correlation Industron
Nanotechnology
Pvt Ltd Mini-
Symposium Virtual
Symposium,
India June 1-2, 2021
S. No. Title Organization Type Dates Role
1 FABTECH Professional Program
2021 American
Welding Society
(AWS) International
Conference September 20,
2021 Oral
Presentation
2 Short term course on Materials
Engineering from Synthesis to
Applications Indian Institute of
Technology (IIT)
Indore QIP & AICTE
Sponsored
Short-Term
Course February 21-26,
2022 Invited Lecture
S. No. Title Organization Type Dates Role
1 Corrosion and Battery Veer Surendra
Sai University of
Technology, Burla Invited talk 6 February
2022 Keynote
address
delivered
Dr. Saurabh Nene
Dr. Jaiveer Singh
Dr. Nitin Kumar Sharma
Dr. Srijan Sengupta
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Journal Articles
1	

Lee, S.-E., Kim, M.-S., Chae, Y.-W., Guim, H., Singh, 
J., & Choi, S.-H. (2022). Effect of intermediate 
heat treatment during hot rolling on the texture 
and formability of annealed AZ31 Mg alloy 
sheets. Journal of Alloys and Compounds, 
897. ISSN: 09258388. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
jallcom.2021.163238
2	

Agrawal, P., Gupta, S., Shukla, S., Nene, S. S., 
Thapliyal, S., Toll, M. P., & Mishra, R. S. (2022). 
Role of Cu addition in enhancing strength-ductility 
synergy in transforming high entropy alloy. Materials 
and Design, 215. ISSN: 02641275. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.matdes.2022.110487
3	

Singh, A. K., Kaushik, L., Singh, J., Das, H., Mondal, 
M., Hong, S.-T., & Choi, S.-H. (2022). Evolution 
of microstructure and texture in the stir zone of 
commercially pure titanium during friction stir 
processing. International Journal of Plasticity, 
150. ISSN: 07496419. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
ijplas.2021.103184
4	

Betal, A., Bera, J., Alam, M., Gandi, A. N., & Sahu, 
S. (2022). Strain and electric field-modulated 
indirect-to-direct band transition of monolayer 
GaInS2. Journal of Computational Electronics, 21(1), 
227–234. ISSN: 15698025. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s10825-021-01833-1
5	

Bhowmik, S., Zhang, J., Vogel, S. C., Nene, S. S., 
Mishra, R. S., McWilliams, B. A., & Knezevic, M. 
(2022). Effects of plasticity-induced martensitic 
transformation and grain refinement on the 
evolution of microstructure and mechanical 
properties of a metastable high entropy 
alloy. Journal of Alloys and Compounds, 891. 
ISSN: 09258388. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
jallcom.2021.161871
6	

Ramya, M., & Ravi, K. R. (2022). Biodegradable 
nanocrystalline Mg-Zn-Ca-Ag alloys as suitable 
materials for orthopedic implants. Materials Today: 
Proceedings, 58, 721–725. ISSN: 22147853. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.matpr.2022.02.290
7	

Bera, J., Betal, A., Singh, Z., Gandi, A. N., & 
Sahu, S. (2022). Low lattice thermal conductivity 
and its role in the remarkable thermoelectric
performance of newly predicted SiS2 and SiSe2 
monolayers. Computational Materials Science, 
201. ISSN: 09270256. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
commatsci.2021.110931
8	

Arivazhagan, A., Venugopal, P. R., Mohammad, 
A., & Ravi, K. R. (2022). Influence of magnesium 
infiltration on compressive behavior of additively 
manufactured porous Ti6Al4V structure. Journal 
of Testing and Evaluation, 50(1). ISSN: 00903973. 
https://doi.org/10.1520/JTE20200558
9	

Dandekar, T. R., Kumar, A., Khatirkar, R. K., Singh, J., 
& Kumar, D. (2021). Effect of isothermal aging at 750 
°C on microstructure and mechanical properties of 
UNS S32101 lean duplex stainless steel. Materials 
Today Communications, 29. ISSN: 23524928. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtcomm.2021.102753
10 
Kaushik, L., Singh, J., Kang, J.-H., Ko, Y. S., Kim, 
D.-I., Suh, J.-Y., & Choi, S.-H. (2021). Deciphering 
the role of multiple generations of annealing 
twins on texture evolution in cold-rolled high 
entropy alloys during annealing. Scripta Materialia, 
205. ISSN: 13596462. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
scriptamat.2021.114221
11	

Gupta, S., Agrawal, P., Nene, S. S., & Mishra, R. 
S. (2021). Friction stir welding of γ-fcc dominated 
metastable high entropy alloy: Microstructural 
evolution and strength. Scripta Materialia, 
204. ISSN: 13596462. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
scriptamat.2021.114161
12 
Saradesh, K. M., Ravi, K. R., & Vinodkumar, G. S. 
(2021). The age hardenability of 22 karat gold (Au-
5.8wt.%Cu-2.5wt.%Ag) alloyed with titanium. Gold 
Bulletin, 54(2), 105–113. ISSN: 00171557. https://doi.
org/10.1007/s13404-021-00301-9
13 
Nene, S. S., Agrawal, P., Frank, M., Watts, A., 
Shukla, S., Morphew, C., … Mishra, R. S. (2021). 
Transformative high entropy alloy conquers 
the strength-ductility paradigm by massive 
interface strengthening. Scripta Materialia, 
203. ISSN: 13596462. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
scriptamat.2021.114070
14 
Das, S., Banthia, S., Manna, J. S., Palai, D., & 
Sengupta, S. (2021). Electrodeposited Nickel 
Coating Reinforced with Chlorophyll-Reduced
Publications
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Graphene Oxide. Advanced Engineering Materials, 
23(9). ISSN: 14381656. https://doi.org/10.1002/
adem.202100254
15 
Sittiho, A., Bhattacharyya, M., Graves, J., 
Nene, S. S., Mishra, R. S., & Charit, I. (2021). 
Friction stir processing of a high entropy alloy 
Fe42Co10Cr15Mn28Si5 with transformative 
characteristics: Microstructure and mechanical 
properties. Materials Today Communications, 
28. ISSN: 23524928. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
mtcomm.2021.102635
16 
Ramani, S., Wins, K. L. D., Nampoothiri, J., Ravi, K. 
R., & Dhas, D. S. E. J. (2021). Effect of post-reaction 
ultrasonic treatment on synthesis, microstructural 
evolution and mechanical behaviour of Al 4043/
TiB2 in situ nanocomposites. Arabian Journal for 
Science and Engineering, 46(8), 7521–7531. ISSN: 
2193567X. https://doi.org/10.1007/s13369-021-
05468-z
17 
Sarwat, S. G., & Ravi, K. R. (2021). Liquid phase as 
an indicator of glass-forming ability. Intermetallics, 
133. ISSN: 09669795. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
intermet.2021.107174
18 
Kaushik, L., Kim, M.-S., Singh, J., Kang, J.-H., Heo, 
Y.-U., Suh, J.-Y., & Choi, S.-H. (2021). Deformation 
mechanisms and texture evolution in high entropy 
alloy during cold rolling. International Journal 
of Plasticity, 141. ISSN: 07496419. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.ijplas.2021.102989
Book Chapters
1.	

Shashank Shekhar, Nitin Kumar Sharma, Sandeep 
Sahu, and Santanu Misra (2022), “Electron 
backscatter diffraction technique: Fundamentals 
to Applications, In: Krishanu Biswas, Sri Sivakumar, 
Nilesh Prakash Gurao (editors) Electron Microscopy 
in Science and Engineering”, IITK Directions, Vol. 6, 
Springer
2. 
S Senthil, KR Ravi, A Brief Review on Self-cleaning 
Coatings for Photovoltaic Systems, New Research 
Directions in Solar Energy Technologies, 197-234, 
2021
Conference Abstracts/Proceedings
1)	

S.S. Nene, High Entropy Alloys: a potential material 
for efficient dissimilar welding, presented in DMW 
2022 (invited talk) held during 15th-16th July 2022 
at BARC Mumbai.
2) 
S.S. Nene, Transformative High Entropy Alloys: a 
potential solution for metal 3D printing using LPBF 
technique, (Invited abstract) presented in PM 22 to 
be held online during 18th-20th April 2022
3) 
A. Dutta, S.K. Gupta, M.H. Tsai, S.S. Nene, Extremely 
high compressive strength in as-cast dual phase 
high entropy alloy for emerging applications, 
presented in PM 22 (online mode) conducted 
during 18th-20th April 2022.
4) 
D. Mishra, S. Agrawal, J. Singh, S.S. Nene, Towards 
high engineering strength of newly designed brass 
like high entropy alloy for structural applications, 
presented in PM 22 (online mode) conducted 
during 18th-20th April 2022.
5) 
S.S. Nene and R.S. Mishra, Designing new corrosion 
resistant materials with exceptional strength-ductility 
synergy and good weldability using high entropy 
approach, presented in HEA 2021, USA (online 
mode) during Dec. 5-8th, 2021.
6) 
Narender Kumar, Na’il Saleh, Arun Kumar, Mohan 
Lal Verma, Pranay Ranjan, Investigation of Atomic 
Layer Futuristic Memory Devices of Binary 
Chalcogenides WX2 (X = S and Se): First-Principles 
Study, IEEE XPLORE, 2022, 1-4, doi: 10.1109/
ASET53988.2022.9735000
7) 
Atul Kumar, Narender Kumar, Pranay Ranjan, Ajay 
D Thakur, Electrical and Optical Characterisation 
of CZTS Thin-Film for Sensing Applications, 
IEEE XPLORE, 2022, 1-4, doi: 10.1109/
ASET53988.2022.9734877.
8) 
Durgesh Kumar Pandey, Aritra Sarkar, Abir 
Bhattacharyya, A. Nagesha, Modelling of Low 
Cycle Fatigue Behaviour of type 316LN Austenitic 
Stainless Steel at Different Temperatures, 8th 
International Conference on CREEP, FATIGUE AND 
CREEP-FATIGUE INTERACTION, Aug 24-27, 2021
9) 
Juhi Srivastava, Aman Bansal , Bryan D. Allison , 
Abir Bhattacharyya, Investigation on the Formation 
of White Etching Region Due to Rolling Contact 
Fatigue in M50 Bearing Steel, 8th International 
Conference on CREEP, FATIGUE AND CREEP-
FATIGUE INTERACTION, Aug 24-27, 2021
10) 
Nitin Kumar Sharma, James Hogan, Gary Fisher, and 
Leijun Li, Finite element simulation of generation of 
residual stress during brazing of cemented carbide 
and steel, presented in FABTECH professional 
program 2021 at Chicago, IL, USA (virtual mode) 
during September 20, 2021.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start Date End
Date
1 Thermoelectric Performance
Study Using First-Principles
Calculations Based Methods SERB Appala Naidu
Gandi H22,59,420 02-Apr-19 01-Apr-
22
2 Design and Fabrication of
Indigenous Powder Fed Metal
Additive Manufacturing Machine DST Ravi K R H2,15,50,720 01-Aug-19 31-Jul-22
3 Quantitative assessment of
Hot tearing characteristics of
Aerospace Magnesium Alloys Aeronautical
Research &
Development
Board Ravi K R H5,77,500 05-Aug-19 31-Dec-
20
4 Chemical Reactions and Energy
Transfer in Atmospheric N2/
O2/Ar-Boron Nitride Surface
Collisions: Applications in
Modelling Spacecraft Materials DST Moumita
Majundar H33,63,984 30-Nov-19 29-Nov-
22
5 Study of the Effects of Stress-
State and Strain-Rate on
Constitutive Response of
Polymer Gels via Experiments
and Continuum Mechanics
Modeling SERB Abir
Bhattacharyya H30,60,480 21-Dec-19 20-Mar-
22
6 Novel in-situ volume contractible
metal halide negative electrodes
for high performance lithium-ion
batteries SERB-CRG Srijan
Sengupta H31,07,150 17-Oct-20 04-Mar-
23
7 Development of Transparent,
Durable superhydrophobic-
coating for self-cleaning of
Endoscope MSME Ravi K R H15,00,000 31-Mar-21 30-Mar-
22
8 Design of Cost-effective,
Ultralight High Entropy Alloys
with Transformation Induced
Plasticity SERB-SRG Saurabh
Nene H32,99,750 23-Dec-21 22-Dec-
21
9 Development of optical based
in-situ monitoring techniques
for porosity detection during
laser cladding and additive
manufacturing of stainless steel SERB Ravi K R H50,42,400 16-Mar-22 15-Mar-
25
Projects
Ongoing Sponsored Projects
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Department of Physics
A visible research in fundamental Physics along with its 
applications is the major theme of the Physics department 
at IIT Jodhpur. The faculty members carry out research 
in the field of Astrophysics, Condensed Matter Physics 
& Material Science, Particle Physics, Experimental and 
Theoretical Quantum Optics, Quantum Information and
Foundations of Quantum Mechanics. The research 
facilities available in the department include SQUID 
magnetometer, Physics Property Measurement Systems 
(PPMS), Raman Spectrometer and Scanning Tunneling 
Microscope (STM).
Faculty Members
Ashutosh Kumar Alok
Head of Department
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Particle Physics and Cosmology
Ambesh Dixit
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Semiconductors, multifunctional 
ferroics & materials for energy-
fabrication & characterization, 
Photovoltaic materials & devices 
ab initio DFT study and device 
simulations
Satyajit Sahu
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Molecular electronics, single 
molecular electronic devices, 
semiconductor devices, 2D materials 
and their applications, density 
functional theory, Information 
Processing in Biological Systems
Subhashish Banerjee
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Open Quantum Systems; Quantum 
Information; Non-Equilibrium Statistical 
Mechanics; Quantum Optics
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sampat Raj Vadera
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Solid State Physics, Materials Science, 
Nanoscience and Nanotechnology, 
Stealth Materials, Stealth Technology
Durgamadhab Mishra
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Magnetic thin films and nanoparticles, 
Permanent Magnets, Synchrotron and 
Neutron Scattering and X-ray imaging
Monika Sinha
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Astrophysics, Astroparticle physics
Reetanjali Moharana
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Astroparticle Physics, High energy 
Cosmic rays, Gamma rays and 
Neutrinos
Santosh Mogurampelly
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Transport in Polymer Electrolytes and 
Materials, Multiscale Modeling of Soft 
Matter Physics and Materials Science
Somnath Ghosh
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Light in disordered and complex 
systems, Mid-IR photonics and 
unconventional devices
V. Narayanan
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Optics and Solar Field Design, 
Plasmonics, Laser Produced Plasmas 
(LPP), Pulsed Laser Deposition (PLD), 
Plasma Diagnostics (Interferometry & 
Optical Emission Spectroscopy (OES)), 
Laser Matter Interaction and Laser 
Cluster Interaction
Amitava Mitra
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Magnetism & Application of 
Magnetic Materials, Electromagnetic 
Techniques for Non-destructive 
Evaluation of Damage for Engineering 
Components, Research Planning & 
Project Management
B.M. Krishna Mariserla
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Light-Matter interactions, 
Ultrafast Spectroscopy, Terahertz 
Spectroscopy, and Higher harmonic 
generation
Prabhat Kumar Jaiswal
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Nonequilibrium Statistical Physics, 
Soft Condensed Matter Physics, 
Computational Physics
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Ram Prakash
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Plasma Science & Technology: Low 
temperature plasma applications
Lakshay Daukiya
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Condensed Matter Physics, 2-D 
Materials, Surface Science
S. Appalakondaiah
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Computational Condensed Matter Physics, Density Functional 
Theory, Phase transitions, Strongly Correlated Phenomena, 
Metal-Semiconductor interfaces, Lattice Dynamics
Shahab Ahmad
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Condensed Matter Physics, 
Nanomaterials, Optoelectronics, 
Energy Storage Devices, Solar Cells, 
Photo-detectors, Light Emitting 
Diodes
Vijay Kumar Singh
Specialization/ Research interest: 
Condensed Matter Physics; 
Nanotechnology; Low dimensional 
materials; Photo-detector; Biosensor; 
Electrochemical water splitting
The following DST Inspire faculty members joined the department during the year 2020-21.
The following Ramanujan faculty members joined the department during the year 2022-23.
The Department of Physics has the following technical and administrative staff members.
Staff
Narendra Kumar Singh
Technical Superintendent
Dhani Ram
Senior Assistant
Sunil Kumar Chouhan
Office Assistant
Technical Staff
Administrative Staff
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Department Research Groups
Condensed Matter and Plasma Physics Group
The group at IIT Jodhpur is pursuing research in Experimental and Computational aspects of Condensed Matter 
and Plasma Physics. The blend of young and experienced faculty members in the group have a strong R&D focus 
to address the cutting edge challenges faced by the nation in the field of energy, climate change and sustainable 
growth, etc. The major field of research being pursued are Functional materials for strategic application, Materials 
for energy storage and harvesting, photovoltaics and solar thermal applications, Multiscale modeling of soft matter, 
Molecular devices for electronics, Magnetic and Multiferroic nanostructures and nanomaterials, Kinetics of phase 
transitions, Mechanical properties of amorphous solids, Wetting-Dewetting behavior on surfaces, and Development 
of cold plasma technologies for health applications and surface engineering. The endeavor is to create an 
ecosystem to carry out interdisciplinary research by taking advantage of all the expertise and resources available 
at IIT Jodhpur. In order to encourage that, the group has established Thematic Research labs viz, Functional 
Materials Lab, Thinfilm and Plasma Devices Lab, Multiscale Characterization Lab and Computational Lab, where 
various applied and fundamental research activities are carried out. The faculty members have established strong 
collaboration with national and international institutes and thus remain at the forefront of research via exchange of 
ideas and research scholars. The group envisions to grow further and embrace new members into the family and 
continue to strive to carve a unique path in the future for the department and the nation.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

High Energy Physics and Astrophysics Group
The group is involved in the research works comprising of astrophysics and particle physics as a part of 
understanding the origin and evolution of Universe. It aims at the participation in the exciting theoretical and 
phenomenological developments in the field of fundamental interactions of nature in cohesion with the rapid growth 
of new observational and experimental data in the field. The group addresses the forefront problems on both 
scales: using the universe and astrophysical objects to learn fundamental underlying features of particle physics 
and employing what is learned from particle physics to provide a better understanding of the universe at large scale 
by exploring nature and properties of the objects in it. The group is robustly active in several sub-domains of High 
Energy Physics.
Quantum Physics group
The Quantum Physics Group aims at the intersection of various facets of quantum physics, from foundational issues 
to technological applications.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Open Quantum Systems: Open Quantum Systems: Dynamics of Nonclassical Evolution This provides an overall 
umbrella which allows for a global as well as a local viewpoint to be developed into various branches of quantum 
physics. In particular, efforts are made into: (i) Parity-Time (PT) Symmetric Quantum Physics: A non-Hermitian 
Hamiltonian with the parity (P) - time (T ) symmetry; (ii) Quantum Thermodynamics: The major aim of these 
endeavors is to amalgamate quantum physics with thermodynamics. understanding of working efficiencies of 
quantum information processing devices.; (iii) Quantum Optics & Quantum State Engineering: With the advent 
of quantum state engineering the study of nonclassical properties of engineered quantum states has become 
important. nonclassical features in a quantum state can only provide quantum supremacy and are directly related 
to technology development; and (iv) Generation of multi-qubit states using short pulsed Lasers. Development of 
Homodyne detection: Wigner distribution of Coherent and Vacuum states .
Optics and Photonics group
The group has been exploring fundamental as well as application specific research activities in optics and 
photonics. The present investigations include development of emerging technologies like Terahertz technology, 
Ultrafast Optical techniques, Time-resolved and Steady state spectroscopy, Fluorescence quantum efficiency, 
Optical Imaging and Mapping, Specialty Optical Fibers, Sensing and Quantum Confinement inspired optical 
phenomena. The research activities and opportunities equally involve experimental as well as theoretical aspects. 
The group has globally competitive skill sets in the domains of optics and photonics and progressively contributing 
towards fundamental explorations as well as making a paradigm shift in technology development and proof-of-
concept devices.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Laboratories and Equipments
The following laboratories are functional in the Department of Physics.
Experiential learning is an integral part of the various programs offered by the physics department at IIT Jodhpur. 
The students grasp the theoretical concepts much better and quickly through hands-on experience. Therefore, 
the department of Physics has established following laboratories for UG and PG students to enhance their 
comprehension of concepts taught in lectures as well as impart skills for their future professional growth.
In order to facilitate globally competitive cutting edge research and breakthrough technologies it is imperative 
to develop an atmosphere wherein the students and faculty members have free access to research facilities not 
only within the department but across all the departments of the institute. Therefore, the department has set up 
four focussed research groups which carry out fundamental and applied research in the areas of (i) Quantum 
Physics, (ii) High Energy and Astrophysics, (iii) Optics and Photonics and (iv) Condensed Matter and Plasma Physics. 
These research groups are supported by the Thematic Research Laboratories catering to the needs of the 
Faculty members, PhD students and Research staff. The details of Laboratories (Teaching / Research lab, Thematic 
Research lab) and Research Groups of the Department are given below.
A. Teaching Labs
1. Basic Physics Lab
Typical experiments in the lab covers Electromagnetism (Hall effect, B-H curve tracing), Optics (Newton’s Rings, 
Refractive index of prism, Diffraction of light, Faraday effect), Mechanics (Stationary waves in strings, Flywheels) and 
Electrodynamics (e/m-ratio with Helmholtz’s coil, Basic current balance).
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Basic Physics Lab
2. Electronics Lab
It is equipped with instruments that can be used to perform experiments related to transistors, Op-AMP, Digital 
circuits, etc. The following new equipment have been acquired in the Electronics Laboratory:
1. New source meter, oscilloscopes, function generators were added.
2. To perform Arduino based experiments new microcontrollers were added.
Electronics Lab
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

3. Condensed Matter Physics Lab
The lab is equipped with a four-probe set up for temperature dependent conductivity measurement, band gap 
measurement of semiconductors, Hall apparatus etc. to measure the functional properties viz. electronic, magnetic, 
optical and thermal properties of materials. The following new experiments have been added to Condensed Matter 
Physics Laboratory:
1.	
Vibrational spectrometer for Raman analysis
2. Temperature dependent resistivity and Hall measurements
Millikan Oil drop
Hysteresis loop tracer
Photoelectric effect apparatus
4. Atomic and Nuclear Physics Lab
This lab has various experiments such as Compton Scattering, Frank-Hertz Experiment, Photoelectric effect, Alpha 
particle spectrometer, Radiation counters etc. covering fundamental aspects of nuclear and atomic physics.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

The following new experiments have been installed in Atomic and Nuclear Physics laboratory
1.	
Gamma Ray Spectrometer (Energy resolved)
2. Alpha spectrometer (Energy resolved)
3. Radiation Counter for Alpha and Beta Particle
4. Radiation Counter for Gamma and Beta Particle
5. Millikan Oil-drop experiment
5. Optics and Laser Lab
The experiments in the lab provide the conceptual understanding of 
geometrical & wave optics, and Lasers. It has several Interferometers 
(Michelson. Fabry Perot, Mach Zehnder), optical fibers, laser diodes, 
Goniometers, prisms, polarizers to cater to the experiments. New 
experiments such as refractor meter, characteristic study of diode 
laser and Polarization studies by wave plates are introduced in this 
academic year of 20-21.
6. Computational Physics Lab
The laboratory is equipped with several state-of-the-art workstations with multiple operating system environments. 
A number of computational and simulation programs including MATLAB® and Mathematica® are pre-installed. The 
standard flow of activities in this laboratory is to formulate/model the real-world and multi-Physics phenomena; 
develop algorithms; write code; execute the job on a computer; visualize and analyse obtained data; and finally, 
correlate/verify the results with the observed phenomena.
B. Research Laboratories
1. Thin Films and Device Lab
The lab is equipped with various thin film fabrication instruments including in-house developed low-cost solution 
processing techniques such as spin coater, dip coater, and hydrothermal cells together with more advanced and 
sophisticated DC and RF magnetron sputtering system for single and multilayer thin film depositions, and thermal 
chemical vapor deposition system to fabricate thin-film nanostructures in different geometries. The synthesis 
laboratory provides the opportunity to develop materials ranging from bulk thin films to 2D and 1D nanostructured 
thin-film structures on various substrates for different applications such as energy, water, health, and environment.
2. Multiscale Characterization Lab
This lab houses several state-of-the art characterization facilities viz. Scanning Tunneling Microscope, Physical 
Property Measurement System, SQUID Magnetometer, Multiferroic measurement systems, etc. The department also 
has access to a wide range of other analytical equipment available at the Centre for Advanced Scientific Equipment 
(CASE) being managed at the institute level.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

(1) Low temperature Scanning Tunnelling Microscope
(2) Electrical Transport Measurement system
Characterization of electronic properties of fabricated devices
3. Functional Materials Processing Lab
The lab is equipped with several advanced equipment such as High Energy Ball Milling, Pressure Machine, Plasma 
Etcher, a wide range of Furnaces, Glove Box, etc. The facilities will be further augmented with a number of state-of-
the-art high-end process equipment for device fabrication.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Furnaces and Material Processing Units
Synthesis and Functionalization of Quantum Dots
4. Functional Materials Design Lab
This lab is developing into a state-of-the-art facility with dedicated instrumentation for the synthesis of new 
functional materials for high efficiency photovoltaic devices and batteries, single-molecule electronics devices. 
Moreover, novel ferromagnetic and ferroelectric materials, high-performance thermoelectric materials, and stealth 
materials for enhanced military capability are also being synthesized in this lab.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

An inert atmosphere filled Glove box system is procured from DST funded research grant to facilitate the fabrication 
of Li-ion batteries and other types of energy storage devices at the Department of Physics.
5. Nonlinear Photonics and Laser Lab
Nonlinear optical effects in the materials due to high-intensity laser pulses drive the research towards a deep 
understanding of light-matter interactions and development of novel photonic and nano electronics devices. In this 
lab fast dynamics using high intense and ultrafast lasers with broad spectral range, including UV-VIS, IR and THz will 
be carried out. Moreover, control and propagation of electromagnetic wave in disordered optical media, photonic 
devices and optical fibers are explored by computational and experimental techniques.
Three-port Glove Box system for the fabrication of Li-ion batteries
a) Experimental Design of Interferometry
b) Optical guiding through visible fibers
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

6. Quantum Optics and Quantum Information Lab
Along with various aspects of Quantum Physics efficient generation of entangled photons using short-pulsed laser 
and its characterization will be realized in this lab. Development of Single Photon Source and its characterization 
shall be performed. Optically generation of non-classical states shall be applied for carrying out challenging 
modern-day experiments in Quantum Physics.
High Resolution UV-Visible Monochromator (Focal 
Length 500 mm, Aperture Ratio f/6.5, Wavelength 
coverage 190 nm- 900 nm, Spectral Resolution 0.05 
nm with 10 mm wide slits)
Vacuum Sealing System 
for Quartz/Glass Pinching 
(Four Tubes at a time)
(a) Entangled Photon Generation
(b) Entangled photons using Femto-
Laser
(iii) GUI for Time-stamping
7. Computational Physics Lab
The Computational Physics laboratory is being developed with several state-of-the-art HPC workstations. A number 
of computational and simulation programs including LAMMPS, GROMACS, QUANTUM-ESPRESSO, VMD, MATLAB®, 
and Mathematica® will be made available to the users of Computational Physic Laboratory. The recommended 
workflow of research activities in this laboratory includes: ideate the research problem, develop model/algorithm, 
write a code/script, execute the job on a workstation, analyse and visualize computer generated data; and 
finally, test/produce/analyse the computational results. New High End Workstations have been acquired in the 
Computational Physics Laboratory.
8. Thematic Laboratory: Cold Plasma Lab
A cold plasma applications lab is being developed to create a niche of high science and high technology by 
retaining the leadership achieved and aiming at global leadership in the area of non-thermal and non-equilibrium 
cold plasmas for a range of food, health, energy, medicine, and agricultural applications. The following new 
equipment have been added to the Cold Plasma Lab.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

A test and characterization set up for Dielectric Barrier Discharge Based Cold Plasma Systems is also being 
developed.
Cold Plasma Lab Set-up is being built
Publications
Journal Publications
1	
Betal, A., Bera, J., Sharma, A., Rath, A. K., & Sahu, 
S. (2022). Composition and Surface Morphology 
Invariant High On-Off Ratio from an Organic 
Memristor. ACS Applied Electronic Materials, 4(3), 
1109–1116. ISSN: 26376113. https://doi.org/10.1021/
acsaelm.1c01234
2	
Rai, S., Singh, V. K., Pendurthi, R., Nasr, J. R., Das, 
S., & Srivastava, A. (2022). Unveiling the electrical 
and photo-physical properties of intrinsic n-type 2D 
WSe2for high performance field-effect transistors. 
Journal of Applied Physics, 131(9). ISSN: 00218979. 
https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0082707
3	
Alok, A. K., Kumbhakar, S., & Sankar, S. U. (2022). 
A unique discrimination between new physics 
scenarios in b→ sμ+μ- anomalies. European Physical 
Journal Plus, 137(3). ISSN: 21905444. https://doi.
org/10.1140/epjp/s13360-022-02576-z
4	
Chetia, A., Bera, J., Betal, A., & Sahu, S. (2022). A 
brief review on photodetector performance based 
on zero dimensional and two dimensional materials 
and their hybrid structures. Materials Today 
Communications, 30. ISSN: 23524928. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.mtcomm.2022.103224
5	
Laha, S. S., Thorat, N. D., Singh, G., Sathish, C. I., 
Yi, J., Dixit, A., & Vinu, A. (2022). Rare-Earth Doped 
Iron Oxide Nanostructures for Cancer Theranostics: 
Magnetic Hyperthermia and Magnetic Resonance
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

6	
Dey, S., Das, N. R., & Ghosh, S. (2022). Exploring 
unconventional features of light dynamics in 
Aubrey–André–Harper model based quasi-
periodic optical lattices. Optics Communications, 
506. ISSN: 00304018. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
optcom.2021.127593
7	
Singha, C., & Banerjee, S. (2022). Thermal 
radiation in curved spacetime using influence 
functional formalism. Physical Review D, 
105(4). ISSN: 24700010. https://doi.org/10.1103/
PhysRevD.105.045020
8	
Khan, B., Singh, M. K., Kumar, A., Pandey, A., 
Dwivedi, S., Kumar, U., Ramawat, S., Kukreti, 
S., Dixit, A., Roy, S. C. (2022). Multiferroic, 
optical and magneto-dielectric properties with 
enhanced magneto-impedance characteristic of 
KBiFe2O5. Journal of Alloys and Compounds, 
893. ISSN: 09258388. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
jallcom.2021.162225
9	
Laha, A., Dey, S., & Ghosh, S. (2022). Reverse-chiral 
response of two T -symmetric optical systems 
hosting conjugate exceptional points. Physical 
Review A, 105(2). ISSN: 24699926. https://doi.
org/10.1103/PhysRevA.105.022203
10 Kumar, K., Bharti, A., & Mogurampelly, S. (2022). 
Insights on choline chloride–based deep eutectic 
solvent (reline) + primary alcohol mixtures: a 
molecular dynamics simulation study. Journal of 
Molecular Modeling, 28(2). ISSN: 16102940. https://
doi.org/10.1007/s00894-021-05017-3
11	
Jani, R. K., Saini, L., & Vadera, S. R. (2022). Size 
dependent percolation threshold and microwave 
absorption properties in nano carbon black/
silicon rubber composites. Journal of Applied 
Physics, 131(4). ISSN: 00218979. https://doi.
org/10.1063/5.0071517
12 Kumar, N., Chaurasiya, R., & Dixit, A. (2022). 
Strain tailored thermodynamic stability, electronic 
transitions, and optoelectronic properties of III (In, 
Ga and Al)-nitride monolayers. Nanotechnology, 
33(4). ISSN: 09574484. https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-
6528/ac31ea
13 Thapa, V. B., & Sinha, M. (2022). Influence of the 
nuclear symmetry energy slope on observables 
of compact stars with. Physical Review C, 
105(1). ISSN: 24699985. https://doi.org/10.1103/
PhysRevC.105.015802
14 Alok, A. K., Chundawat, N. R. S., & Kumar, D. (2022). 
Impact of b→ sℓℓ anomalies on rare charm decays in 
non-universal Z′ models. European Physical Journal 
C, 82(1). ISSN: 14346044. https://doi.org/10.1140/epjc/
s10052-021-09975-z
15 Saikia, D., Bera, J., Betal, A., & Sahu, S. (2022). 
Performance evaluation of an all inorganic CsGeI3 
based perovskite solar cell by numerical simulation. 
Optical Materials, 123. ISSN: 09253467. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.optmat.2021.111839
16 Paul, A., Laha, A., Dey, S., & Ghosh, S. (2021). 
Asymmetric guidance of multiple hybrid modes 
through a gain-loss-assisted planar coupled-
waveguide system hosting higher-order exceptional 
points. Physical Review A, 104(6). ISSN: 24699926. 
https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevA.104.063503
17 Tripathi, B., Katiyar, R. K., Morell, G., Dixit, A., & 
Katiyar, R. S. (2021). BiFeO3 coupled polysulfide 
trapping in C/S composite cathode material for 
Li-S batteries as large efficiency and high rate 
performance. Energies, 14(24). ISSN: 19961073. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/en14248362
18 Utagi, S., Banerjee, S., & Srikanth, R. (2021). On 
the non-Markovianity of quantum semi-Markov 
processes. Quantum Information Processing, 20(12). 
ISSN: 15700755. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11128-021-
03302-x
19 Verma, H., kale, A. J., Prakash, C., Harb, M., & 
Dixit, A. (2021). Enhanced Photocatalytic Activity 
in Strain Engineered Janus WSSe Monolayers. 
Journal of Electronic Materials, 50(12), 7230–7239. 
ISSN: 03615235. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11664-021-
09215-w
20 Dixit, A., Bhatia, B., & Tripathi, R. P. (2021). Evolution 
of hematite and/or magnetite iron phases with 
thermal heating in ordinary chondrites: A generic 
characteristic. Journal of Earth System Science, 
130(4). ISSN: 23474327. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s12040-021-01699-8
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

21 Vavilapalli, D. S., Melvin, A. A., Bellarmine, F., 
Mannam, R., Velaga, S., Poswal, H. K., … Singh, 
S. (2021). Author Correction: Growth of sillenite 
Bi12FeO20 single crystals: structural, thermal, 
optical, photocatalytic features and first principle 
calculations (Scientific Reports, (2020), 10, 1, 
(22052), 10.1038/s41598-020-78598-3). Scientific 
Reports, 11(1). ISSN: 20452322. https://doi.
org/10.1038/s41598-021-85663-y
22 Stingaciu, M., Mishra, D., de Julián Fernández, 
C., Cabassi, R., Eikeland, A. Z., Christensen, M., & 
Deledda, S. (2021). High magnetic coercive field in 
Ca-Al-Cr substituted strontium hexaferrite. Journal 
of Alloys and Compounds, 883. ISSN: 09258388. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2021.160768
23 Karak, S., Bera, J., Paul, S., Sahu, S., & Saha, S. 
(2021). Low thermal conductivity and interface 
thermal conductance in Sn S2. Physical Review 
B, 104(19). ISSN: 24699950. https://doi.org/10.1103/
PhysRevB.104.195304
24 Beniwal, R., Gawas, P., Prabha Charan, C., 
Nutalapati, V., & Mariserla, B. M. K. (2021). Core 
modified freebase porphyrins in glass matrix for 
nonlinear optical properties. Materials Letters, 
303. ISSN: 0167577X. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
matlet.2021.130453
25 Khandelwal, A., Dhindhoria, K., Dixit, A., & Chhabra, 
M. (2021). Superiority of activated graphite/
CuO composite electrode over Platinum based 
electrodes as cathode in algae assisted microbial 
fuel cell. Environmental Technology and Innovation, 
24. ISSN: 23521864. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
eti.2021.101891
26 Lahiri, S., Banerjee, S., & Jayannavar, A. M. (2021). 
Exploring the extent of validity of quantum work 
fluctuation theorems in the presence of weak 
measurements. Quantum Information Processing, 
20(11). ISSN: 15700755. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s11128-021-03260-4
27 Tiwari, C., & Dixit, A. (2021). Highly textured 
(100)-oriented AlN thin films using thermal atomic 
layer deposition and their electrical properties. 
Applied Physics A: Materials Science and
28 Prasad, D., Praveen, A., Mahapatra, S., 
Mogurampelly, S., & Chaudhari, S. R. (2021). 
Existence of β-diketone form of curcuminoids 
revealed by NMR spectroscopy. Food Chemistry, 
360. ISSN: 03088146. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
foodchem.2021.130000
29 Naikoo, J., Banerjee, S., Pan, A. K., & Ghosh, 
S. (2021). Projective measurements under 
qubit quantum channels. Physical Review A, 
104(4). ISSN: 24699926. https://doi.org/10.1103/
PhysRevA.104.042608
30 Mandal, S., & Banerjee, S. (2021). Local description 
of S-matrix in quantum field theory in curved 
spacetime using Riemann-normal coordinate. 
European Physical Journal Plus, 136(10). ISSN: 
21905444. https://doi.org/10.1140/epjp/s13360-021-
02037-z
31 Yadav, D. K., Yadav, A., Meena, K., Devat, K., Mishra, 
J. K., Sahu, R., Jain, S. K., Dixit, A., Srivastava, N., 
Patodia, T., Jakhar, N., & Tripathi, B. (2021). Study of 
CNT Intercalated Bi2O3/PVDF Composite for Super 
Capacitors Applications. Macromolecular Symposia, 
399(1). ISSN: 10221360. https://doi.org/10.1002/
masy.202100022
32 Biswas, P., Dey, S., & Ghosh, S. (2021). Specialty 
topological fiber using periodic lattice geometries. 
Physical Review A, 104(4). ISSN: 24699926. https://
doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevA.104.043513
33 Thapa, V. B., Kumar, A., & Sinha, M. (2021). 
Baryonic dense matter in view of gravitational-
wave observations. Monthly Notices of the Royal 
Astronomical Society, 507(2), 2991–3004. ISSN: 
00358711. https://doi.org/10.1093/mnras/stab2327
34 Alok, A. K., Dighe, A., Gangal, S., & Kumar, J. 
(2021). The role of non-universal Z couplings in 
explaining the Vus anomaly. Nuclear Physics 
B, 971. ISSN: 05503213. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
nuclphysb.2021.115538
35 Pandey, S., Ramavtar, K., Pareek, P., & Prakash, R. 
(2021). Surface Dielectric Barrier Discharge Based 
Large Volume Plasma Activated Water. IEEE Int Conf
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Plasma Sci, 2021-September. Institute of Electrical 
and Electronics Engineers Inc. ISBN: 07309244; 
9781665432276 (ISBN). https://doi.org/10.1109/
ICOPS36761.2021.9588505
36 Dixit, S., Patodia, T., Sharma, K. B., Katyayan, 
S., Dixit, A., Jain, S. K., Agarwal, G., Tripathi, B. 
(2021). Adsorption characteristics of MWNTs via 
intercalation of nickel. Mater. Today Proc., 38, 
1233–1236. ISSN: 22147853. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
matpr.2020.07.534
37 Bhattacherjee, S., Biswas, P., & Ghosh, S. (2021). 
Identifying topological signature of 1D photonic 
lattice by Zak phase analysis and towards robust 
amplification of edge state. Journal of Optics 
(United Kingdom), 23(9). ISSN: 20408978. https://
doi.org/10.1088/2040-8986/ac11ab
38 Kukreti, S., Gupta, G. K., & Dixit, A. (2021). 
Theoretical DFT studies of Cu2HgSnS4 absorber 
material and Al:ZnO/ZnO/CdS/Cu2HgSnS4/Back 
contact heterojunction solar cell. Solar Energy, 225, 
802–813. ISSN: 0038092X. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
solener.2021.07.071
39 Balakrishnan, R., Dixit, A., Rao, M. S. R., & Naik, 
R. (2021). Influence of Ca doping on X-ray 
photoelectron core-level spectra of magnetoelectric 
bulk BiFeO3. Surface and Interface Analysis, 53(9), 
798–807. ISSN: 01422421. https://doi.org/10.1002/
sia.6981
40 Saini, L., Jani, R. K., Janu, Y., Kumar, M., Patra, M. 
K., & Dixit, A. (2021). Gamma radiation induced 
microwave absorption properties of Ultra-thin 
barium titanate (BaTiO3) ceramic tiles over X-Band 
(8.2–12.4GHz). Ceramics International, 47(16), 
22397–22403. ISSN: 02728842. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.ceramint.2021.04.249
41 Bera, J., Betal, A., & Sahu, S. (2021). Spin orbit 
coupling induced enhancement of thermoelectric 
performance of HfX2 (X = S, Se) and its Janus 
monolayer. Journal of Alloys and Compounds, 
872. ISSN: 09258388. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
jallcom.2021.159704
42 Abe, K., Adrich, P., Aihara, H., Akutsu, R., Alekseev, I., 
Ali, A., Mishra, A. K.… Zsoldos, S. (2021). Supernova 
Model Discrimination with Hyper-Kamiokande.
Astrophysical Journal, 916(1). ISSN: 0004637X. 
https://doi.org/10.3847/1538-4357/abf7c4
43 Murugaiyan, P., Mitra, A., Jena, P. S. M., Mahato, B., 
Ghosh, M., Roy, R. K., & Panda, A. K. (2021). Grain 
refinement in Fe-rich FeSiB(P)NbCu nanocomposite 
alloys through P compositional modulation. 
Materials Letters, 295. ISSN: 0167577X. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.matlet.2021.129852
44 Saini, L., Gupta, V., Patra, M. K., Jani, R. K., Shukla, A., 
Kumar, N., & Dixit, A. (2021). Impedance engineered 
microwave absorption properties of Fe-Ni/C core-
shell enabled rubber composites for X-band stealth 
applications. Journal of Alloys and Compounds, 
869. ISSN: 09258388. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
jallcom.2021.159360
45 Sarkar, R., Dutta, S., Banerjee, S., & Panigrahi, P. K. 
(2021). Phase squeezing of quantum hypergraph 
states. Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular and 
Optical Physics, 54(13). ISSN: 09534075. https://doi.
org/10.1088/1361-6455/ac02d2
46 Naikoo, J., Kumari, S., Banerjee, S., & Pan, A. K. 
(2021). PT symmetric evolution, coherence and 
violation of Leggett-Garg inequalities. Journal of 
Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical, 54(27). 
ISSN: 17518113. https://doi.org/10.1088/1751-8121/
ac0546
47 Paul, A., Laha, A., & Ghosh, S. (2021). Hosting of 
exceptional points in an atom-field interaction 
Hamiltonian and manipulation of light states. 
Physica Scripta, 96(7). ISSN: 00318949. https://doi.
org/10.1088/1402-4896/abf7ff
48 Sahani, R. M., Singhal, R., Jinger, N., Kulhar, M., 
Pandya, A., & Dixit, A. (2021). Gamma Radiation 
Dosimetry Characteristics of Hydrothermally 
Synthesized TiO2 Nanorods. Journal of Electronic 
Materials, 50(7), 4090–4095. ISSN: 03615235. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11664-021-08939-z
49 Bhalla, B., & Sinha, M. (2021). Ambipolar decay of 
magnetic field in magnetars and the observed 
magnetar activities. Modern Physics Letters A, 
36(20). ISSN: 02177323. https://doi.org/10.1142/
S0217732321501443
50 Shringi, A. K., Betal, A., Sahu, S., & Kumar, M. (2021). 
Write-once-read-many-times resistive switching
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

behavior of amorphous barium titanate based 
device with very high on-off ratio and stability. 
Applied Physics Letters, 118(26). ISSN: 00036951. 
https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0050448
51 Alok, A. K., Kumbhakar, S., Saini, J., & Sankar, S. 
U. (2021). New physics in b → se+e−: A model 
independent analysis. Nuclear Physics B, 
967. ISSN: 05503213. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
nuclphysb.2021.115419
52 Shekhawat, S. S., Gupta, A. B., Kulshreshtha, N. M., 
& Prakash, R. (2021). UV disinfection studies on 
chlorine tolerant bacteria recovered from treated 
sewage. Journal of Environmental Chemical 
Engineering, 9(3). ISSN: 22133437. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.jece.2021.105253
53 Sahani, R. M., Pandya, A., & Dixit, A. (2021). Zinc 
oxide/polystyrene composite based scintillator 
for alpha particle monitoring. Materials Science in 
Semiconductor Processing, 127. ISSN: 13698001. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mssp.2021.105692
54 Mathieson, A., Rahil, M., Zhang, Y., Dose, W. M., 
Lee, J. T., Deschler, F., Ahmad, S., De Volder, M. 
(2021). Ruddlesden Popper 2D perovskites as Li-
ion battery electrodes. Materials Advances, 2(10), 
3370–3377. ISSN: 26335409. https://doi.org/10.1039/
d1ma00020a
55 Madeo, J., Man, M. K. L., Sahoo, C., Campbell, M., 
Pareek, V., Wong, E. L., … Dani, K. M. (2021). Time-
resolved ARPES of excitons in a 2D semiconductor. 
Conf. Lasers Electro-Opt., CLEO - Proc. Institute 
of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc. ISBN: 
9781943580910.
56 Ghosal, A., Das, D., & Banerjee, S. (2021). 
Characterizing qubit channels in the context 
of quantum teleportation. Physical Review A, 
103(5). ISSN: 24699926. https://doi.org/10.1103/
PhysRevA.103.052422
57 Chandrasekhar, S., Deepa, H. R., Melavanki, 
R., Basanagouda, M. M., Mogurampelly, S., & 
Thipperudrappa, J. (2021). Computational and 
spectroscopic studies of biologically active 
coumarin-based fluorophores. Luminescence, 36(3), 
769–787. ISSN: 15227235. https://doi.org/10.1002/
bio.4002
58 Sharma, A., Dambhare, N. V., Bera, J., Sahu, S., 
& Rath, A. K. (2021). Crack-Free Conjugated PbS 
Quantum Dot-Hole Transport Layers for Solar Cells. 
ACS Applied Nano Materials, 4(4), 4016–4025. ISSN: 
25740970. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.1c00373
59 Alok, A. K., Kumbhakar, S., & Sankar, S. U. (2021). 
Discriminating new physics in b ? sµ+µ- via 
transverse polarization asymmetry of K* meson. 
Proc. Sci., 390. Sissa Medialab Srl. ISBN: 18248039.
60 Utagi, S., Rao, V. N., Srikanth, R., & Banerjee, S. 
(2021). Singularities, mixing, and non-Markovianity 
of Pauli dynamical maps. Physical Review A, 
103(4). ISSN: 24699926. https://doi.org/10.1103/
PhysRevA.103.042610
61 Athira, B. S., Mandal, S., & Banerjee, S. (2021). 
Characteristics of interaction between gravitons and 
photons. European Physical Journal Plus, 136(4). 
ISSN: 21905444. https://doi.org/10.1140/epjp/s13360-
021-01361-8
62 Dey, S., Laha, A., & Ghosh, S. (2021). Exotic light 
dynamics around an exceptional point of order four 
associated with three connecting second-order 
exceptional points. Journal of the Optical Society of 
America B: Optical Physics, 38(4), 1297–1306. ISSN: 
07403224. https://doi.org/10.1364/JOSAB.416232
63 Paulson, K. G., Panwar, E., Banerjee, S., & Srikanth, 
R. (2021). Hierarchy of quantum correlations under 
non-Markovian dynamics. Quantum Information 
Processing, 20(4). ISSN: 15700755. https://doi.
org/10.1007/s11128-021-03061-9
64 Goel, N., Bera, J., Kumar, R., Sahu, S., & Kumar, M. 
(2021). MoS2-PVP Nanocomposites Decorated ZnO 
Microsheets for Efficient Hydrogen Detection. IEEE 
Sensors Journal, 21(7), 8878–8885. ISSN: 1530437X. 
https://doi.org/10.1109/JSEN.2021.3054038
International Conference Papers
1.	
Kiran Ahlawat, Ramavtar, Shivam Chaturvedi, 
Rajneesh Chaurasiya, Ankur Gupta, Shankar 
Manoharan, Deepak Fulwani, Ambesh Dixit and 
Ram Prakash "A Portable Photocatalytic Oxidation 
System for Reuse of N95 Filtering Face-Mask 
Respirators" Proceedings of the 48th IEEE 
International Conference on Plasma Sciences
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

(ICOPS-2021) held at Lake Tahoe, Maxico, USA 
during 12-16 September 2021 (Poster Presentation).
2. Shikha Pandey, Kiran, Ramavtar, Pankaj Pareek 
and Ram Prakash "Surface Dielectric Barrier 
Discharge Based Large Volume Plasma Activated 
Water" Proceedings of the 48th IEEE International 
Conference on Plasma Sciences (ICOPS-2021) held 
at Lake Tahoe, Maxico, USA during 12-16 September 
2021 (Poster Presentation).
3. Amitava Mitra, “Rapidly Solidified Magnetic 
Materials and Their Applications”, 2nd International 
Conference on “Metallurgy & Materials Technology- 
Emerging Trends, Development & Applications“ 
(On-line) organized by MetCorr, 30th June,2021
4. Ravina Beniwal, Pratiksha Gawas, Chandra Prabha 
charan, Venkatramaiah Nutalapati*, Bala Murali 
Krishna Mariserla, “Nonlinear optical study of 
hydroxyl phenyl porphyrins embedded in borate 
glass matrix for power limiting applications”, 
ICAMMC 2021, SRM University, Chennai, Tamil 
Nadu, India, Dec 02-04 (2021).
5. Ravina Beniwal, Pratiksha Gawas, Chandra Prabha 
charan, Venkatramaiah Nutalapati*, Bala Murali 
Krishna Mariserla, “Core modified free based 
porphyrin in solution/glass matrix for optical liming 
application”, ICON 2021, SRM University, Chennai, 
Tamil Nadu, India, Feb 01-03 (2021).
6. Ravina, Pratiksha Gawas, Aswathy Sundaresan, K. 
Shadak Alee, Venkatramaiah Nutalapati, Bala Murali 
Krishna Mariserla*, “Functionalization of graphene 
with metal nanoparticles by pulsed laser-induced 
synthesis”, APS March Meetings 2021, USA, Mar 
15th -19th (2021).
7.	
Julien Madéo, Michael KL Man, Chakradhar Sahoo, 
Marshall Campbell, Vivek Pareek, E Laine Wong, 
Abdullah Al-Mahboob, Nicholas S Chan, Arka 
Karmakar, Bala Murali Krishna Mariserla, Xiaoqin 
Li, Tony F Heinz, Ting Cao, Keshav M Dani, “Time-
resolved ARPES of excitons in a 2D semiconductor”, 
CLEO-2021, San Jose, California, USA, 9-14 May 
2021.
8. Chakradhar Sahoo, Julien Madéo, Michael Man, 
Marshall Campbell, Vivek Pareek, E Laine Wong,
Abdullah Al-Mahboob, Nicholas S Chan, Arka 
Karmakar, Bala Murali Krishna Mariserla, Xiaoqin 
Elaine Li, Tony Heinz, Ting Cao, Keshav Dani, 
“Dynamics of momentum-resolved excitons in a 
2D semiconductor using TR-µARPES”, APS March 
meetings, USA Mar 15-19 (2021).
9. S. Dey and S. Ghosh, "Hosting exceptional 
points in 1D photonic bandgap waveguide for 
mode engineering" 26th Optoelectronics and 
Communications Conference, P. Alexander Wai, H. 
Tam, and C. Yu, eds., OSA Technical Digest (Optical 
Society of America, 2021), paper W4C.5.
10. A. Paul, A. Laha, S.dey and S. Ghosh " Exceptional 
points and non-chiral mode conversion of hybrid-
modes in a manifold coupled planar waveguide" 
26th Optoelectronics and Communications 
Conference, P. Alexander Wai, H. Tam, and C. Yu, 
eds., OSA Technical Digest (Optical Society of 
America, 2021), paper JS3E.9.
11. S. Dey, M. Mishra, P. Biswas, N. Ranjan Das and S. 
Ghosh, “A Specialty Multicore Optical Fiber Using 
Aubry-AndreHarper Model Based Localization 
Phase Transition Frontiers in Optics and Laser 
Sciences (FiO+LS-2021), Technical Digest Series 
(Optica Publishing Group, 2021), paper JTu1A.85, 
Washington DC, United States, November 2021.
12. A. Roy, S. Dey, A. Laha, A. Biswas, and S. Ghosh, 
“Hosting an exceptional point in a gain-loss assisted 
dual-core optical fiber segment”, Frontiers in Optics 
and Laser Sciences (FiO+LS-2021), Technical Digest 
Series (Optica Publishing Group, 2021), paper 
JW7A.50, Washington DC, United States, November 
2021.
13. A. Laha, D. Beniwal, and S. Ghosh, “Third-order 
exceptional point and state-switching in an all-lossy 
microcavity,” The JSAP-OSA Joint Symposia (82th 
Autumn Meeting of the Japan Society of Applied 
Physics), September 2021, paper 10a-N405-4, 
Virtual Web Conference, Japan.
14. B. Pant et.al., GRAPES-3 Collaboration, 
“Characterizing the isotropic diffuse gamma-ray flux 
(10-300 TeV) by the GRAPES-3 experiment”, ICRC 
Proceedings
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

15. D. Pattnaik, GRAPES-3 Collaboration “Measurement 
of the improved angular resolution of GRAPES-3 
EAS array by the observation of the Moon shadow”, 
ICRC Proceedings
16. GRAPES-3 Collaboration, “Zenith angle 
dependence of pressure effect in GRAPES-3 muon 
telescope”, ICRC proceedings
17. GRAPES-3 Collaboration, “An Advanced Triggerless 
Data Acquisition System for GRAPES-3 Muon 
Detector”, ICRC Proceedings
18. GRAPES-3 Collaboration, “Cosmic ray energy 
spectrum and composition measurements from 
the GRAPES-3 experiment: Latest results”, ICRC 
proceedings
19. GRAPES-3 Collaboration, “Search for gamma 
rays above 30 TeV from the Crab Nebula with the 
GRAPES-3 experiment”, ICRC proceedings
20.	GRAPES-3 Collaboration “Measurement of large 
angle muon flux in GRAPES-3 experiment using 
triggerless DAQ system”, ICRC Proceedings
21. GRAPES-3 Collaboration “A study of the Moon 
shadow by using GRAPES-3 muon telescope”, ICRC 
Proceedings
22.	GRAPES-3 Collaboration “An extensive study 
for correcting the nonlinear particle density 
measured by GRAPES-3 scintillator detectors”, ICRC 
proceedings
23.	GRAPES-3 Collaboration, “The azimuthal distribution 
of thunderstorm events recorded by the GRAPES-3 
experiment”, ICRC Proceedings
24.	GRAPES-3 Collaboration “An extensive study 
for correcting the nonlinear particle density 
measured by GRAPES-3 scintillator detectors”, ICRC 
Proceedings
25.	Invited guest speaker in “Scholars International 
Conference on Physics and Quantum Physics”. 
Physics Conference 2022 hosted with the theme 
"Frontiers in Physics and Quantum Physics", held on 
June 22-23, 2022 at Berlin, Germany and Online.
National Conference Papers
1.	
Ramavtar, Kiran, and Ram Prakash "A BBD Plasma 
Based Packed Bed Discharge System Useful for 
Effective VOCs Reduction" Proceedings of the 
36th National Symposium on Plasma Science and 
Technology (Plasma-2021) held at Birla Institute of 
Technology, Jaipur during 13-15 December, 2021 
(Poster Presentation).
2. Kiran, Ramavtar, Vigyan Gadodia, Shikha Panday, 
Ritesh Mishra and Ram Prakash "Cold Plasma 
Treatment of Raw Milk and Its Physical Properties 
Analysis" Proceedings of the 36th National 
Symposium on Plasma Science and Technology 
(Plasma-2021) held at Birla Institute of Technology, 
Jaipur during 13-15 December, 2021 (Oral 
Presentation).
3. Rashid Malik Ansari*, Mohammad Rahil and Shahab 
Ahmad, "Investigation of 2D Ruddlesden-Popper 
Perovskites for Optoelectronic Devices", Energy 
Storage and Conversion , AIP Publishing Horizons , 
4-6 Aug 2021 (Poster Presentation).
4. Shubham Chamola* and Shahab Ahmad, 
"Nanoporous Fe2O3 Electrodes for Photo-
Rechargeable Li-ion Battery Applications", 
Advanced Energy Materials & Devices (AEMD) - 
2022, Central Glass & Ceramic Research Institute, 
Kolkata, 3rd March 2022 (Oral Presentation).
5. Shubham Chamola* and Shahab Ahmad, 
"Nanoporous Fe2O3 Electrodes for Li-ion Battery 
Applications", ACMS-2022 International conference 
on Advances in Chemical and Material Sciences, 
Indian Institute of Chemical Engineers HIT Kolkata, 
14-16 April 2022 (Poster Presentation).
6. Abhishek Yadav*, Mohammad Rahil and Shahab 
Ahmad, "Rb+ doped Ruddlesden-Popper Perovskite 
for Improved Optoelectronics Properties" , 
International conference on Advanced Two-
Dimensional Materials (ICAM – 2022), Amrita 
Vishwa Vidyapeetham Chennai, 9-11 June 2022 
(Oral Presentation).
7.	
Invited guest speaker in “National Assembly of 
Researchers In Physics” to be held on August 25-
26, 2022 at IISER Bhopal, India.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start
Date End
Date
1 Investigation of magnetoelectric
coupling in Cil-xTMxO Multiferroic
System BRNS,
Mumbai Ambesh Dixit H23,42,500 27-Mar-
14 26-Mar-
17
2 Probing Magnetic Structures and
Spin Flop transition in bulk and
nanostructured FeVo4 Multiferroic
System DST Ambesh Dixit H6,60,573 13-Jan-16 31-Dec-19
3 Magnetars with superfluid core SERB Monika Sinha H20,60,082 21-Mar-
18 20-Mar-
21
4 Synthesis and study of properties of
electrochemically active composites
based on lithium intercalated silicates
of iron, manganese, cobalt and
having high electron conductivity
carbosilicates of transition metal DST Ambesh Dixit H23,31,200 22-Nov-
18 07-May-
21
5 Generation of Entangled Photons and
its application to Quantum Computation
and Information Processing DST V Narayanan H2,08,92,000 24-Apr-
19 23-Apr-
22
6 Design and Development of Metal
Oxide Hole Transporting Material (HTM)
based Inverted Perovskite Solar Cell
(iPSC) Under Ambient Conditions DST Ambesh Dixit H21,18,400 26-Sep-
18 25-Sep-
23
7 Sulphur nanoparticles Reinforced
Hieratchical Assemblies of Carbon
nanotubes for Efficient Lithium-Sulphur
Batteries DST Shahab Ahmad H86,86,828 09-Oct-
19 08-Oct-
22
8 Photo-Rechargeable Organo-
Halide Perovskite-Transition Metal
Dichalcogenide Batteries SERB Shahab Ahmad H48,98,476 22-Mar-
19 21-Mar-
22
9 Electronic and thermoelectric
properties of Bi2Te3-XSX and Sb2Te3-
xSX: A density functional theory
approach and scanning tunneling
microscopy study of surface states
for enhancement of thermoelectric
efficiency DRDO Satyajit Sahu H9,80,000 09-Jul-
20 04-Oct-
22
Projects
New projects in the Department of Physics
1.	

Scanning tunneling microscopic study of single organic molecule for memristive application in neuromorphic 
devices, SERB, CRG, 49 Lakhs, 2021-2024.
2. Silicon Phthalocyanine Based Low Power Memristive Device for Neuromorphic Application, SERB, SIRE, 2022
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start
Date End
Date
10 Cold Plasma Detergent in the
environment to fight COVID-19 Porte
Automations
Pvt Ltd Ram Prakash H23,60,000 04-Jun-
20 20-Jun-
21
11 Uniquely Identifying Lorentz Structure
of New Physics in Semi-Leptonic
B-Decays SERB-CRG Ashutosh K Alok H22,18,612 28-Dec-
20 27-Dec-
23
12 Study of Very High Energy Gamma-
Rays from Galactic sources by Grapes-3
observatory SERB-SRG Reetanjali
Mohrana H26,07,044 26-Nov-
20 25-Nov-
22
13 Design and Development of Dielectric
Barrier Discharge Based Flat VUV/UV
Excimer Light Sources for Advanced
Applications in Health and Medicine SERB-CRG Ram Prakash H62,13,399 30-Dec-
20 29-Dec-
23
14 High voltage (~5V) ultrafast charging/
discharging cathode materials in bulk
and nano geometries for high power Li
ion rechargeable batteries SERB-CRG Ambesh Dixit H40,26,000 28-Dec-
20 27-Dec-
23
15 Engineering the interface of perovskites
and 2D materials DST-Inspire
Faculty Lakshya
Daukiya H1,10,00,000 02-Nov-
20 01-Nov-
25
16 Fabrication of Atomically Thin, Ultrafast
and Ultrasensitive Photodetectors
Based on 2D-2D van der Waals (vdW)
Heterostructures of Graphene with W
Based TMDs DST-Inspire
Faculty Vijay Kumar
Singh H1,10,00,000 01-Jan-
21 31-Dec-
26
17 Design and Development of Multiferroic
Materials for Photovoltaic and Energy
Harvesting Application DST-Inspire
Faculty PhD Student-
Priyambada
Sahoo Mentor-
Dr. Ambesh
Dixit H4,51,520 06-Nov-
20 05-Nov-
25
18 Lead free perovskite based
semiconducting materials and devices
for photovoltaic and photodetector
applications DST-Inspire
Faculty PhD Student-
Surbhi Ramawat
Mentor-Dr.
Ambesh Dixit H4,51,520 07-Nov-
20 06-Nov-
25
19 Two-dimensional TMDC and QD
based hybrid phototransistor with high
sensitivity and mobility DST-Inspire
Faculty PhD Student-
Chayan Das
Mentor-Dr.
Satyajit Sahu H4,51,520 21-Oct-
20 20-Oct-
25
20 Design and development of small scale
milk disinfection system using mercury-
free plasma (MFP) UV Lamp technology MSME Ram Prakash H10,50,000 31-Mar-
21 30-Mar-
22
21 Quantum heat engines DST-QITPD-
ICPS Subhashish
Banerjee H15,59,000 22-Apr-
21 21-Apr-
24
22 Measurement of particle Size: A Laser-
based forward scattering approach BMW Steels
Pvt. Ltd V Narayanan H6,00,000 17-May-
21 16-May-
22
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start
Date End
Date
23 FIST Project DST-FIST
Program-
2020 Sampat Raj
Vadera H1,05,00,000 29-Sep-
21 29-Sep-
26
24 Scanning tunneling microscopic
study of single organic molecule for
memristive devices in neuromorphic
application SERB-CRG Satyajit Sahu H49,14,525 29-Jan-
22 28-Jan-
25
25 Center for Rechargeable Energy
storage systems for Augmenting
Transportation and Electrification
(CREATE) SERB (DST) Ambesh Dixit H65,21,200 11-Mar-
22 10-Mar-
27
26 Functional Quantum Heterostructures:
Multiscale Modelling SERB-
Ramanujan
Faculty
Scheme Appalakondaiah
Samudrala H1,19,00,000 09-Mar-
22 08-Mar-
27
27 High Dimensional Quantum Information
Processing DST-Inspire
Fellowship Subhashish
Banerjee H24,64,720 22-Sep-
21 21-Sep-
26
28 Development of 2D Transition Metal
Dichalcogenides (TMDs) and Metal
Oxide Thin Film based Perovskite Solar
Cells (PSCs) and Photodetectors DST-Inspire
Fellowship Ambesh Dixit H24,64,720 14-Jan-
22 13-Jan-27
S.
No Project Title Sponsoring
Agency PI Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Start
Date End
Date
1 Faculty Development Program on
Quantum Science and Technology DST Subhashish
Banerjee H1,80,000 18-Aug-
19 30-Aug-
19
2 Quantum Information and
Computation 2019 Multiple Agencies
(DRDO and other
Pvt Agency) Subhashish
Banerjee H1,45,000 08-Dec-
19 11-Dec-19
Consultancy Projects
Closed Projects
1. Possibilities and Device Applications of Degenerate Optical Microcavities
Department of Science and Technology (DST)
PI: Somnath Ghosh	
Rs. 34.89308 Lakhs	
Start Date: 09-May-2018	
End Date: 08-Sep-2021
Outcome: The project is intended to design prototypes to meet few challenges of the photonic industry towards 
innovative and efficient light controlling devices. This has been done by encounter of multiple second order 
EPs (exceptional points), encounter of second order EPs via coupling between two states with deliberate phase 
difference and encounter of third order EPs. This will broadly improve the quality of future optical sensing, optical 
communication and defense applications. The investigations has been restricted on specific designs of cavities for 
unconventional applications, however the findings would open up a new platform for such device applications. This
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

is an emerging area and there are lot of possibilities for technological applications in next generation all-optical 
chips/integrated circuits/on-chip chirality. Moreover, the outcome is helpful in initiating future collaborative long-term 
project.
2. Photo-Rechargeable Perovskite Batteries for Future Mobility
Department of Science and Technology (DST)
PI: Shahab Ahmad	Rs. 27.6514 Lakhs Start Date: 03-Oct-2018	End Date: 02-Oct-2020
Hydrothermal Coating of Patterned Carbon Nanotube Forest for 
Structured Lithium-Ion Battery Electrodes
We have demonstrated a process to coat vertically aligned carbon 
nanotube (CNT) forests with metal oxide nanoparticles using 
microwave-assisted hydrothermal synthesis. Hydrothermal processes 
normally damage delicate CNT forests, which is addressed here 
by a combination of lithographic patterning, transfer printing, and 
reduction of the synthesis time. This process is applied for the 
fabrication of structured Li-ion battery (LIB) electrodes where the 
aligned CNTs provide a straight electron transport path through the 
electrode and the hydrothermal coating process is used to coat the 
CNTs with conversion anode materials for LIBs. These nanoparticles 
are anchored on the surface of the CNTs and batteries fabricated 
following this process show a fourfold longer cyclability. Finally, this 
process is used to create thick electrodes (350 μm) with a gravimetric 
capacity of over 900 mAh/g.
S. Jessl, D. Copic, S. Engelke, Shahab 
Ahmad and Michael De Volder, Small 
(2019) 1901201, 1-6.
Highly Tunable Single-Phase Excitons in Mixed Halide Layered 
Perovskites
The fabrication of highly controlled single-phase mixed halide two-
dimensional (2D) perovskites is demonstrated by successive doping 
of inorganic dopant, potassium iodide (KI), in 2D perovskite CHPB. 
Our computational investigations further confirm the thermodynamic 
stability of mixed anion lattices. A stoichiometric increase of KI in 
CHPB beyond critical passivation levels results in a uniform bandgap 
tunability of thin films from the UV (~3.21 eV) to green (~2.50 eV) 
region of spectra. Distinctly linear, tunable, and single-phase strong 
room-temperature exciton absorbance (~401−508 nm) and emission 
peaks (~416−518 nm) in the blue-green spectral region are observed 
with the increase of KI concentration levels in thin-film samples. 
Doped two-dimensional (2D) perovskite films exhibit a minimum 
stokes shift parameter of 40 meV, which is very small compared to 
the conventional route of mixing two perovskite precursor solutions.
Mohammad Rahil, Pramod Rajput, 
Dibyajyoti Ghosh and Shahab Ahmad, 
ACS Applied Electronic Materials 
(2020) 2, 10, 3199-3210.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Ruddlesden-Popper 2D perovskites of type (C6H9C2H4NH3)2 
(CH3NH3)n−1 PbnI3n+1 (n = 1–4) for Optoelectronic Applications
A new series of quasi 2D perovskites with a ring type cyclic carbon 
group as organic spacer forming RP perovskite is reported for 
photobattery applications. The demonstrated RP perovskite of type 
for n = 1–4 have shown formation of highly crystalline thin films with 
alternate stacking of organic and inorganic layers, where the order 
of PbI6 octahedron layering are controlled by n-value, and shown 
uniform direct bandgap tunable from 2.51 eV (n = 1) to 1.92 eV (n = 
4). The PL lifetime measurements supported the fact that lifetime of 
charge carriers increase with n-value of RP perovskites. In addition, 
the photodetectors shown sharp photocurrent response from 17 nA/
cm2 for n = 1 to 70 nA/cm2 for n = 4, under zero bias and low power 
illumination conditions (470 nm LED, 1.5 mW/cm2). Furthermore, for 
lowest bandgap RP perovskite n = 4, the photodetector showed 
maximum photocurrent density of ~ 508 nA/cm2 at 3 V under similar 
illumination condition, thus giving fairly large responsivity (46.65 
mA/W). Our investigations show that 2-(1-cyclohexenyl)ethylamine 
based RP perovskites can be potential solution processed 
semiconducting materials for optoelectronic applications such as 
photo-detectors, solar cells, LEDs, photobatteries etc.
Ruddlesden Popper 2D perovskites as Li-ion battery electrodes
The effect of tuning the layering properties of the quasi two-
dimensional Ruddlesden Popper (RP) layered perovskite series 
(BA)2(MA)n-1PbnX3n+1 from n = 1 to n = 4 and the equivalent bulk 
crystal structure MAPbX3 is investigated. The interaction between 
the insertion of lithium ions and the layering arrangement of the 
perovskite structure are studied electrochemically. The layering 
structure that optimises both capacity and stability is determined 
to be n = 4, providing a compromise between the number of active 
layers and the lithium ion access between them provided by the BA 
organic chain, thus demonstrating initial and stabilised gravimetric 
capacities of 575.5 mAh/g and 89.9 mAh/ g respectively. The effect 
of changing the halide within the perovskite structure is investigated 
and demonstrates a greater gravimetric capacity for the lighter 
bromide species compared to the commonly used iodide. Finally, 
high molarity electrolytes and tailored cut-off potentials are used to 
improve the stability of the RP layered perovskite electrodes.
Mohammad Rahil, Rashid Malik 
Ansari, Chandra Prakash, S. S. Islam, 
Ambesh Dixit and Shahab Ahmad, 
Scientific Reports (2022) 12, 2176.
A. Mathieson, Mohammad Rahil, Y. 
Zhang, W. M. Dose, J.T. Lee, Felix 
Deschler, Shahab Ahmad and Michael 
De Volder, Materials Advances (2021) 
2, 3370-3377. (link) (Features in a new 
Editor’s choice web collection on 
luminescent metal halides by Journal 
of Materials Chemistry C).
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Photo-Rechargeable Li-ion Batteries: Device Configurations, 
Mechanisms and Materials
We have jointly published a detailed review article on the photo-
rechargeable Li-ion batteries. Photo-Rechargeable batteries (PRBs) 
are emerging dual functionality devices, able to both harvest solar 
energy and store it in the form of electrochemical energy. Recently, 
efforts have been made in the search for advanced functional 
materials and integrated device configurations to improve the 
performance of photo-enhanced batteries. A photo-rechargeable 
battery will provide a unique, standalone energy solution for self-
powered remote electronic devices, independent of power grids. 
However, these devices currently suffer from several technical 
shortcomings in terms of efficiency, lifetime, and operating voltage. 
In this review, a comprehensive report is presented on the significant 
research developments in the field of photo-rechargeable Li-
ion batteries (Li-PRBs), including device configurations, working 
mechanisms, material selection, and future directions.
Akshaykumar D. Salunke, Shubham 
Chamola, Angus Mathieson, Buddha 
Deka Boruah, Michael de Volder and 
Shahab Ahmad, ACS Applied Energy 
Materials (2022) 5, 7891−7912.
Patents
1.	

Ramavtar Jangra, Kiran Ahlawal, Ambesh Dixit, 
and Ram Prakash "Indoor Air Purifying Device" 
Indian Patent Application No., 202211042187 Dated 
22/07/2022
2. 
R M. Sahani, A. Pandya, C. Kumari, A. Dixit, A doped 
zinc oxide nanorod scintillator and alpha radiation 
detector prepared thereof, (Indian Patent Granted; 
Patent No. 379542)
Outreach activities from the Department of 
Physics
1.	

Ram Prakash demonstrated Novel Cold-plasma 
Detergent in Environment (CODE) Device in the 
Exhibition organized during the visit of Hon'ble 
Vice President of India Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu at 
Jodhpur City Knowledge and Innovation Cluster on 
28th September 2021.
2. 
Ram Prakash delivered an Invited-talk on "Plasma 
Technologies for Sustainable Development: 
Successful attempts for FEAR (Food/Health, Energy 
& Agriculture Retrievals)" in the 8th Rajasthan 
Science Congress on "Science and Technology for 
Sustainable Development" held at APJ Abdul Kalam
Auditorium, IIS, Kshipra Path, Mansarovar, Jaipur 
during 20-22 October 2021.
3. 
Ram Prakash demonstrated Novel CODE Device 
and Small-scale Milk Disinfection System in 
the Exhibition organized on the eve of the 7th 
Convocation of IIT Jodhpur at the Innovation 
Complex on 18th December 2021.
4. 
Ram Prakash organized a one-day Meet on 28th 
January 2022 in association with Rajasthan Solation 
Association’s CSR Stakeholders during the MoU 
singing between IIT Jodhpur Technology Park and 
the Rajasthan Solar Association (RSA) to set-up RSA 
Centre of Excellence for Renewable Energy.
5. 
Ram Prakash demonstrated the Novel CODE 
Device and Small-scale Milk Disinfection System to 
Prof. Samir K. Brahmachari, Ex-DG, CSIR during the 
product showcasing on the 10th March 2022.
6. 
Ram Prakash demonstrated four products 
developed in the Cold Plasma Lab during the open-
house day organized at the institute on 20th April 
2022.
7.	

Ram Prakash organized an agreement signing 
event for physical space allocation for M/s
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

WhizHack Technologies Pvt. Ltd. in IIT Jodhpur 
Technology Park for a Centre of Excellence (CoE) in 
Cyber-Physical Systems Security on 31st May 2022.

Ram Prakash organized an agreement signing 
event for physical space allocation for the

Rajasthan Solar Association at IIT Jodhpur 
Technology Park for RSA Centre of Excellence
8. 
Shahab Ahmad delivered an invited talk on 
"Structured Electrodes for Advanced Energy 
Storage Devices" at the ADVANCED ENERGY 
MATERIALS & DEVICES (AEMD)-2022 Workshop, 
CSIR-Central Glass & Ceramic Research Institute 
Kolkata (03 Mar 2022, Invited Talk).
9. 
Shahab Ahmad chaired session on "Nitride 
Electronics" at the MRSI-AGM Conclave 2021, Indian 
Institute of Technology Madras (23 December 2021, 
Session Chair).
10. 
Shahab Ahmad delivered a lecture on 
"Nanomaterials for Energy Harvesting and Storage" 
in 9th 2-Week Online Refresher Course in Basic 
Science (Interdisciplinary), Human Resource 
Development Centre, Jamia Millia Islamia, New 
Delhi (12 October 2021, Resource Person).
11. 
Shahab Ahmad participated in CUTS Roundtable 
Conference-I on "Accelerating Electric Vehicle 
Adoption in Rajasthan" as a Panel Expert (01 Oct 
2021 and Panel Discussion).
12. 
Shahab Ahmad has supervised an e-intern, Mr. 
Janmesh Kumar Samariya, under the Knowledge 
Augmentation through Research in Young Aspirants 
(KARYA) Programme, Department of Science & 
Technology-Rajasthan on project entitled "Niobium 
Tungsten Oxide for Fast Charging Li-ion Batteries" 
for duration of 3 months (Completed in Feb 2022).
13. 
M. Bala Murali Krishna delivered invited talk on 
“Dreamland of two dimensional (2D) materials 
for optoelectronics and Photonics, Faculty 
Development Program on Nanomaterials: 
Experimental design & Theoretical Modeling, IIITDM 
Kurnool, India, 13-20 Feb (2021).
14. 
Amitava Mitra delivered a lecture on 
“Nanostructured Magnetic Materials and their
Applications” at ATAL- Faculty Development 
Programme on Novel Materials and their 
Applications (on-line), Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab 
Technical University, Bathinda, 23rd July,2021
15. 
Amitava Mitra delivered lecture on “Technology 
Management’ at CSIR INTEGRATED SKILL 
INITIATIVE, Industrial, R&D Training on Materials & 
Metallurgical Engineering (On-line) organized by 
CSIR-National Metallurgical Laboratory, Jamshedpur, 
21st June, 2021
16. 
Amitava Mitra delivered a lecture on “Non-
destructive Evaluation of Materials: A tool for 
Structural Health Monitoring” at a Short-term Course 
on Structural Health Monitoring, Indian Institute of 
Technology Jodhpur, 3rd -7th January, 2022
17. 
Amitava Mitra delivered a lecture on “Magnetic 
Barkhausen Emissions: A tool for Quality Control 
and Damage Assessment of Engineering 
Components” at Kalyani Center for Technology 
and Innovations (R&;D of Bharat Forge), Pune, 16th 
March, 2022
18. 
Sampat Raj Vadera delivered a lecture on 
“Nanoscience and Nanotechnology” at Gyan 
Ganga State Level Subject Specific Short Term 
Online Training Programme at Government Dungar 
College, Bikaner, 01-06 February 2021.
19. 
Sampat Raj Vadera delivered a lecture on 
“Sustainable Development” AICTE sponsored 
ATAL-FDP Scheme on Green Technology 
and Sustainability Engineering organized by 
Engineering College, Bikaner, 03 July 2021.
20.	
Prabhat K. Jaiswal delivered an Invited Talk on 
“Domain growth and wetting in binary mixtures: 
Fast-mode kinetics” in an International Symposium 
on "Current Trends in Non-equilibrium Physics", 
School of Physical Sciences, JNU, New Delhi during 
22-26 November 2021.
21. 
Dr Satyajit Sahu was invited by the French embassy 
to visit UTT, France for a research collaboration 
between UTT and IIT Jodhpur.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Award & Recognitions
Faculty
1.	

Dr. Ram Prakash was Elected as Vice-President of 
the Plasma Science Society of India (PSSI) for the 
term 2022-2024.
2. 
Dr. Shahab Ahmad's research work was highlighted 
on the Cover page of Annual Compendium on 
‘Materials for Energy Storage-2021’ published by 
Department of Science & Technology (DST), India. 
The Compendium was released by Prof. Ashutosh 
Sharma, Former Secretary, DST.
3. 
Best paper award on research paper “Indigenous 
High Power Pseudospark Switches for Fast Pulse 
Power Applications” authored by R. P. Lamba, U. N. 
Pal, and Ram Prakash for the best oral presentation 
by Mr. R. P. Lamba (Ph.D. work) in the 36th National 
Symposium on Plasma Science and Technology 
(Plasma-2021) held at Birla Institute of Technology, 
Jaipur during 13-15 December, 2021.
Students
1. 
“Best-Oral presentation” award won by PhD student 
Mr. Shubham Chamola at "Advanced Energy 
Materials & Devices-2022" workshop conducted by 
CGCRI-Kolkata.
2. 
“Best-Poster presentation” award won by PhD 
student Mr. Shubham Chamola at the “International 
Conference on Advances in Chemical and Material 
Sciences (ACMS-2022)", organized on Platinum 
Jubilee celebration of ‘Indian Institute of Chemical 
Engineers’, held during April 14-16, 2022.
New Technologies developed in the 
Department of Physics
A Novel Cold-plasma Detergent in Environment ‘CODE’ 
device for indoor air quality technology is developed 
by faculties and students of department, namely, Dr. 
Ram Prakash, Associate Professor, Dr. Ambesh Dixit, 
Associate Professor, along with PhD scholars Mr. 
Ramavtar Jangra, Ms. Kiran Ahlawat under an industry 
sponsored project. Air pollution is basically one of the 
top 5 risks causing chronic diseases according to WHO. 
 
We consume nearly 8 times as much air by volume as
food and 4 times as much air as water. Indoor air often 
contains around 2-5 times more pollution as compared 
to outdoor air. Sick building syndrome is also a 
challenging issue nowadays. Besides these, airborne 
transmitted pathogen infection is a huge challenge 
in the current era. Almost every year we are seeing a 
new bacteria or virus of influenza nature appearing and 
creating epidemic or pandemic of diseases. Long living 
pathogens and small size aerosols are not effectively 
dealt by the currently available indoor air purifiers. To 
reduce the risks of infection from airborne pathogens in 
the indoor environment, the IITJ’s Novel CODE device 
was designed, developed, tested and successfully 
transferred to M/s Divya Plasma Solutions Pvt. Ltd. -A 
start-up company, September, 2021.
Accordingly, M/s Divya Plasma Solutions Pvt. Ltd. 
-a Deep Tech Start-up incubated at IIT Jodhpur-
Technology Innovation and Start-up Center announced 
their Novel CODE Indoor Air Purifiers recently. The 
CODE101 Air Purifier System was launched on the 2nd 
August 2022 on the Foundation Day of IIT Jodhpur and 
is developed for home and offices which deactivates 
more than 99.99% of harmful pathogens and provides 
quality indoor air. Right now, different indoor air 
purifying products are being developed on a patented 
technology of IIT Jodhpur by this start-up. The company 
is promoted by Dr. Ram Prakash, Associate Professor 
IIT Jodhpur, the key inventor of the technology, and Shri 
Anil Sapra, Smt. Bina Sapra, Shri Pradeep Jain and a 
few others.
The concept is based on non-equilibrium cold plasma 
in combination with nano-technology. This Novel 
CODE device is producing optimum concentrations 
of negative ions having cold-plasma detergent ions 
as well as positive ions in the environment similar 
to mother nature. Nobel Prize winner Paul Crutzen 
coined the phrase "Detergent of the Atmosphere" 
that is exactly what the Novel Code device is capable 
of. In this development, the existence of cold-plasma 
detergent ions for more than 25 seconds on an 
average is the key advantage for better indoor air 
quality.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

There are four-fold benefits of this invention:
1.	

Cold-plasma detergent ions can instantaneously 
bond on the surface of substances such as bacteria, 
fungi, viruses, and allergens which can break down 
the proteins on the surface of such pathogens.
2. 
Concentrations of active ions are such that they 
can produce local fields similar to the bond energy 
of the chemical bonds of the harmful pathogens in 
the environment for faster deactivation. Further, 
negative and positive ion concentrations are 
neutralized in the air itself, which otherwise can 
deposit on to the surfaces.
3. 
The enhanced electric field produced in the micro-
discharges from the developed novel configuration 
provides additional opportunity for disfigurement 
of cells of harmful bacteria and viruses via shear 
stresses once passed through the device.
4. 
Cold-plasma detergent ions can degrade Volatile 
Organic Compounds ‘VOCs’ very fast and can 
capture dust and pollen.
The key features of the technology are: Rapid 
Disinfection, Faster Control of VOCs, Deodorization, 
Dust and pollen reduction even without use of any filter, 
No vacuum sealing, No UV, No or Nil Ozone, Easily 
Scalable, Longer sustenance of plasma detergent ions, 
Consumes less power in discharge and Environment 
friendly. The working performance of a 4 inches Novel 
CODE device has been tested for disinfection of total 
microbial counts, E. Coli Bacteria, MS-2 Phage virus, 
reduction of total fungal counts, dust, pollens and VOCs 
in indoor environments (sizes up to 1000 cubic feet) 
and the obtained results showed the quality indoor air. 
The CODE device is tested at CEG Test House Jaipur, 
AIIMS Jodhpur, BISR Jaipur, Bio-care Research Lab 
Ahmedabad and IRCLASS, Jaipur.
The developed technology is attractive for individuals in 
offices and houses. Systems based on this technology 
can eventually be deployed at all public and health care 
facilities as standalone systems or can be integrated 
with the ducts, AC, Coolers, etc. The first product is 
a CODE101 Indoor Air Purifier for home and offices 
deactivating more than 99.99% of harmful pathogens 
and purifying indoor air and is shown below.
IITJ’s Novel CODE device based indoor air purifier (CODE101)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

New high end research instrumentation through project in the Department of Physics:
1.	
A 50 kV (peak to peak) variable bi-polar pulse power supply with frequency range 5kHz-50kHz
2. Tektronix High-Voltage Passive Probe 40 kV
3. 
Rogowski-type Pearson current monitor Output resistance 50 Ohms, Maximum peak current ~5000 A Maximum 
rms current 65 A.
4. Air Ion Counter Range: 2 million and 200 million
5. Computational workstations
6. Glove-Box for energy storage applications
7.	
High-energy Ball-Mill for energy storage applications
8. Multichannel Potentiostat Workstation for electrochemical characterization of energy storage devices.
9. Thermal Chemical Vapor Deposition System for the growth of CNTs and other nanomaterials.
10. Xe-Lamp based Light Source for Photocurrent measurements.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Inter-
Disciplinary 
Research 
Platforms

Inter-Disciplinary Research 
Division
Introduction
Engaging students and helping them to develop 
knowledge, insights, problem solving skills, self-
confidence, self-efficacy, and a passion for learning are 
common goals that educators bring to the classroom, and 
interdisciplinary instruction and exploration promotes 
realization of these objectives. An interdisciplinary 
programme emerges when multidisciplinary initiative 
for a problem requires an integrated approach through 
fusion of knowledge from multiple fields. The boundaries 
among disciplines get diffused. With the passage of 
time the interdisciplinary platforms may lead to the 
establishment of transdisciplinary academic schools/
centres. In the institute a division of interdisciplinary 
research has been established since 2019.
Objectives/Purpose
•

To create an environment to support 
interdisciplinary research platforms in the 
contemporary areas of research and innovation
•

To develop an ecosystem for competitive and 
cutting edge research
•

To encourage innovation and technology 
development in interdisciplinary fields
•

To have a structured process for conducting 
Ph.D and Post-Doctoral Research Programmes in 
interdisciplinary areas of IDRPs
•

To establish partnership with relevant industries 
and research organisations in the areas of mutual 
interest
Platforms
There are six following Inter-Disciplinary Research 
Platforms (IDRP) under the division:
1.	
Digital Humanities (DH),
2. Iot and Applications (IoT),
3. Quantum Information and Computation (QIC),
4. Robotics and Mobility (RM),
5. Smart Health Care (SHC) and
6. Space Science Technology (SST).
Each platform is headed by one Coordinator.
Faculty Members
Faculties of different departments, depending upon 
their research interests, join any one or two of above 
platforms to carry out the interdisciplinary activities. 
In addition to the affiliation to the parent department, 
103 faculties are associated with IDRPs through their 
secondary affiliation.
Dr. S. C. Bose
Head of the Division
Office of IDRP Division
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Digital Humanities 
(DH)
Introduction
Digital Humanities at IIT Jodhpur is a unique 
interdisciplinary platform that offers a master’s degree 
in DH, the latter being the first of its kind in India. It also 
runs a PhD program with a number of scholars working 
on various issues ranging from digital healthcare, 
human-computer interaction and digital social reading to 
archiving, digital heritage, documentation of traditional 
art and algorithmic accountability. The MSc program 
involves student projects on several topics such as 
e-governance, ICT, app design, AI-based design, digital 
banking, VR-based e-learning and so on.
The first MSc batch students have been placed across 
companies with high packages. Some of them have 
received research positions in IITs and IIMs.
The group has contributed to existing and under 
consideration MoUs with other institutions and is 
currently expanding nationally and internationally.
Faculty details
At present, the following faculty members are 
associated with the IDRP-IoT:
School of Liberal Arts
1.	

Dr. Parichay Patra (Assistant Professor, Area: Film 
Studies)
2. 
Dr. Prasenjeet Tribhuvan (Assistant Professor, Area: 
Sociology)
3. 
Dr. Natasa Thoudam (Assistant Professor, Area: 
Performance Studies, Indian Northeast Studies)
4. 
Dr. Vidya Sarveswaran (Associate Professor, Area: 
Ecocriticism)
5. 
Dr. Tonisha Guin (Assistant Professor, Area: Cultural 
Studies)
6. 
Dr. Rachel Philip (Assistant Professor, Area: 
Sociology of Education)
7.	

Dr. Gurujegan Murugesan (Assistant Professor, Area: 
Linguistics)
8. 
Dr. Akanksha Choudhary (Assistant Professor, Area: 
Economics)
School of Management and Entrepreneurship
1.	

Dr. Manish Aggarwal (Associate Professor, Area: 
Business Analytics)
2. 
Dr. Sankalp Pratap (Associate Professor, Area: 
Innovation & Entrepreneurship)
3. 
Dr. G. Venkat Ram Reddy (Assistant Professor, Area: 
Human Capital & Organizational Dynamics)
Dept. of Electrical Engineering
1.	

Dr. Rajlaxmi Chouhan (Assistant Professor, Area: 
Education Technology, Digital Learning Tools)
Dept. of Mechanical Engineering
1.	
Dr. Amrita Puri (Assistant Professor, Area: Acoustics)
Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering
1.	

Dr. Romi Banerjee (Assistant Professor, Area: 
Embodied Cognitive Architectures)
2. 
Dr. Suman Kundu (Assistant Professor, Area: Social 
Network Analysis)
3. 
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury (Professor, Area: Digital 
Multimedia)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Dept. of Mathematics
1.	

Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar (Associate Professor, Area: 
Wavelet Analysis)
Dept. of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
1.	

Dr. Srijan Sengupta (Assistant Professor, Area: 
Lithium ion Batteries)
Professor of Practice
1.	
Prof. Nimish Vohra (IDRP & SME, Area: Design)
Adjunct Professors
1.	
Prof. Arjun Ghosh (HSS, IIT Delhi)
2. Prof. Sarah Kenderdine (EPFL, Switzerland)
Academic Programs
There are two academic programs. They are as follows.
1.	
2-year MSc program in Digital Humanities
2. PhD program in Digital Humanities
Significant Research 
Achievements
A number of research scholars have participated and 
got their p apers/posters accepted in top international 
conferences including the Alliance of Digital Humanities 
Organizations (ADHO) Annual Conference 2022. 
One PhD scholar has been offered a membership 
of Johannes Gutenberg University (JGU) of Mainz, 
Germany.
Student Laurels
1.	

The following students of the DH-IDRP got 
their presentations accepted in the Alliance of 
Digital Humanities Organizations (ADHO) Annual 
Conference, 2022.
a. 
Ms. Sharanya Ghosh & Mr. Rajarshi Das (PhD 
scholars)
b. 
Ms. Vasundhra Dahiya (PhD scholar) & Ms. 
Lavanya Dahiya (MSc student)
2. 
Ms. Sharanya Ghosh, PhD scholar, has been 
accepted as a junior member of the Graduate
School of Humanities and Social Sciences, 
Johannes Gutenberg University (JGU), Mainz, 
Germany. It will enable her to complete a research 
visit at the university with access to the resources 
offered by them, she can also be a member/
associate member in their collaborative projects. 
She is currently being externally supervised by 
Prof. Gerhard Lauer, who used to be the Digital 
Humanities Chair at the University of Basel, 
Germany, and is currently the Gutenberg Chair 
Professor of Book Studies at JGU.
3. 
Ms. Sharanya Ghosh successfully completed the 
European Summer University in Digital Humanities 
in 2021, which was hosted by the University of 
Leipzig, Germany.
4. 
DH research group comprising of Dr. Mayank 
Kumar, Mayank Kapoor and Ishita Vyas got their 
paper ‘Theorising Sociomateriality in the adoption 
and use of smart health wearables’ accepted at the 
2021 Health Information Technology Symposium 
(formerly SIG-Health Pre-ICIS Workshop) held at 
Austin TX, USA, in December 2021.
5. 
Ms. Lavanya Dahiya (MSc student in DH) and 
Mr. Samya Brata Roy (PhD scholar in SoLA) have 
been accepted into the 2021-2023 HASTAC 
Scholars Program (Humanities, Arts, Science, and 
Technology Alliance and Collaboratory) located at 
the Graduate Center at the City University of New 
York (CUNY) and Dartmouth College.
6. 
Ms. Vasundhra Dahiya, PhD student in DH, has 
been selected as one of the 15 global panelists in 
the Data & Society Research Institute’s Parables of 
AI in/from the Global South Storytelling Workshop, 
2021.
7.	

Aparna Shaji, an M.Sc. student in DH, completed 
an international internship with the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change.
8. 
Tushar Kant, an M.Sc. student in DH, has been 
accepted as an international participant in the 2022 
Plant Humanities Summer Program, Dumbarton 
Oaks, USA.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Laboratories and equipment
•

Space for a DH laboratory has been assigned and 
it is in the process of getting transformed into a 
creative artspace.
Outreach activities
•

The Digital Humanities group facilitated an MoU 
with the Scottish Church College, University of 
Calcutta, and soon the two institutions will organize 
a national-level Faculty Development Program (FDP) 
in DH. Two more MoU proposals with Jadavpur 
University and Indira Gandhi National Centre for the 
Arts (IGNCA), respectively, are under consideration.
•

The DH group helped the Office of International 
Relations and Outreach, IITJ, in achieving the 
membership of Erasmus program of the European 
Union, as one of the DH PhD scholars, Ms. 
Sharanya Ghosh, has received a membership of 
Johannes Gutenberg University (JGU) of Mainz, 
Germany.
Publications
•

Aggarwal, Manish. (2021). Attitude-based entropy 
function and applications in decision-making. 
Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence. 
104, 104290, 0952-1976, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
engappai.2021.104290
Ongoing Sponsored 
Research Project
Project Title: “Offering Provocations: Surfacing 
Evidence”: The Archiving of Cine-Politics under the 
Indian National Emergency through Digital Humanities 
2.0
Co-PI: Dr. Parichay Patra (PIs from IIT Ropar and Royal 
Holloway, University of London)
Amount: 55 lakhs (approx.) | Start Date: April 2019 | End 
Date: September 2022
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

IoT and Applications 
(IoT)
Introduction
Internet of Things (IoT) has gained immense interest 
for applications in smart agriculture, transportation, 
environment monitoring, healthcare, and smart wearable, 
Industrial IoT, and many other applications. Sensors are 
the key components to communicate with surroundings, 
which have to be both highly sensitive and selective as 
well. On the other hand, the data collected from sensors
have to be analyzed and used for making Processes 
and Systems smarter. IoT and applications area is a 
highly multidisciplinary area involving various areas of 
Materials, Devices, Sensors, Circuits, Communication, 
and Data Analytics, and their applications in IoT system 
development. Inter-Disciplinary Research Platform (IDRP) 
on the Internet of Things (IoT) & Applications is created 
to work with a holistic approach for seamless integration 
of technologies.
The IDRP on IoT & Applications will facilitate the research 
and development in multiple areas including Industry 
4.0, Health, Agriculture, Infrastructure, Transportation, 
Environmental Monitoring, and Infrastructure Safety 
encompassing a complete ecosystem for simulation, 
design, development, characterization, and testing. 
R&D ecosystem of Jodhpur which includes IITJ, AIIMS, 
NLU, and Police University, can be an ideal combination
for innovation in various areas of AIoT, such as in 
environment, healthcare, and cybersecurity.
The IDRP on IoT & Applications offers Ph.D. in a wide 
range of emerging and challenging interdisciplinary 
research areas such as AIoT, Industry 4.0, Smart 
City, Smart Infrastructure, Smart Grid, Environment 
Monitoring, Intelligent Transportation, etc. This unique 
interdisciplinary Ph.D. program addresses the gap
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

between real-life challenges and Technology by using a 
holistic approach. Please visit Research Areas to know
the associated research areas, facilities, and associated 
faculty members.
The Ph.D. students are trained to conduct high-quality 
cutting-edge research demonstrated through tangible 
deliverables and to publish in top-ranking journals and 
conferences. Specially-designed courses on technical 
communication and Intellectual Property Rights enable 
students in quality expression as well as patent 
landscaping for potential IP and business translation of 
their work. Weekly colloquium enables the students to 
keep open avenues of sharing ideas and learning from 
peers. Students have round-the-clock access to high-
end research and computational facilities, and also have 
the opportunity of one additional year of fellowship 
after thesis submission to engage in translational and 
entrepreneurial initiatives arising out of their Ph.D. work. 
On graduation, the doctoral students are trained in 
critical thinking, research, development, operations, and 
management of emerging technological challenges for 
both industry and academia.
Department of Electrical Engineering
1. Aashish Mathur (Convener )
2. Abdul Gafoor Shaik
3. Ajay Agarwal
4. Amandeep Kaur
5. Arpit Khandelwal
6. Arun Kumar Singh
7. Harshit Agarwal
8. Kamaljit Rangra (Coordinator)
9. Kunwar Aditya
10. Jai Narayan Tripathi
11. Mahesh Kumar
12. Manoj Chaudhury
13. Malyala Pavana Ravi Sai Kiran
14. Nitin Bhatia
15. Ravi Yadav
16. 
Saakshi Dhanekar
17. Sandeep Kumar Yadav
18. Shree Prakash Tiwari
19. Soumava Mukherjee
Department of Computer Science & Engineering
21. Sumit Kalra
22. 
Debasis Das
23. 
Deepak Mishra
24.	Dip Sankar Banerjee
25.	Suchetana Chakraborty
Department of Civil & Infrastructure Engineering
26. 
Ranju Mohan
27. Debanjan Guha Roy (CIE)
Faculty details
At present, the following faculty members are associated with the IDRP-IoT:
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S. No. Name of the Student Supervisors
1 Sneha Prasad Dr. Sumit Kalra and Dr. Arpit Khandelwal
2 Preeti Jain Dr. Debasis Das and Dr. Arpit Khandelwal
3 Manpreet Singh Dr. Saakshi Dhanekar and Dr. Sinjana Yerasani
4 Amritesh Kumar Dr. Debasis Das and Dr. Nitin Bhatia
5 Chetali Yadav Dr. Dip Sankar Banerjee and Dr. Kamaljit Rangra
6 Koustav Mondal Dr. Debasis Das
7 Shubham Sharma Dr. Sai Kiran, Prof. Manoj Dr. R Bhandari
Academic Programs
•
IoT IDRP PhD Program
Details of the Students:
Faculty Laurels
1.	

Team of Sneha Prasad, Dr. Sumit Kalra and Dr. 
Aprit Khandelwal was the Winner of iS3: iDeathon 
on Sustainable Smart Systems (1 Lac)
2. 
Saakshi Dhanekar was awarded ‘Best Woman 
Professional’ by Shri Pralhad P. Chhabria Awards 
and IEEE India Council
3. 
Team of Sneha Prasad, Dr. Sumit Kalra, Dr.Arpit 
Khandelwal , Dr Amit Goyal, Dr Abhinav Dixit, and 
Dr Nithin Prakasan Nair won the 1st prize from 
Tech4Seva competition organized by Unnat Bharat 
Abhiyan, RCI IIT Jodhpur
Student Laurels
1.	

Team of Sneha Prasad, Dr. Sumit Kalra and Dr. Aprit 
Khandelwal was the Winner of iS3: iDeathon on 
Sustainable Smart Systems (1 Lac)
2. 
Team of Sneha Prasad, Dr. Sumit Kalra, Dr. Arpit 
Khandelwal, Dr Amit Goyal, Dr Abhinav Dixit, and 
Dr Nithin Prakasan Nair won the 1st prize from 
Tech4Seva competition organized by Unnat Bharat 
Abhiyan, RCI IIT Jodhpur
Department of Mechanical Engineering
28. 
Anand Krishnan Plappally
29. 
Hardik Kothadia
30. 
Ankur Gupta
31. Barun Pratiher
32. 
Amrita Puri
33. Shrutidhara Sarma
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
34. Meenu Chhabra
35. 
Mitali Mukeerji
Department of Metallurgical and Materials 
Engineering
36. 
Pranay Ranjan
Department of Physics
37. 
Ambesh Dixit
Department of Chemistry
38.	Ritu Gupta
School of Management and Entrepreneurship
39.	Yerasani Sinjana
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S. No. Title Speaker Date
1 Netradyne - AI and IoT Mr. Teja Gudena, Senior Vice President, Netradyne 28.5.2021
2 Cellular Internet of Things Dr. Abhinav Kumar, IIT Hyderabad 3.7.2021
3 5G Wireless Communication &
Technologies Prof. Manav Bhatnagar, IIT Delhi 25.3.2021
4 VLSI Webinar on SoC Design &
Verification by Maven Silicon Mr. Sivakumar P R, Founder and CEO, Marvel Silicon 25.4.2021
5 Industry Webinar on
Semiconductor Technologies –
Enabling the Connected World Dr. Usha Gogineni, Director for EDA (Electronic Design
Automation) in AMS Semiconductors, Hyderabad 6.5.2021
S.
No. Project title PI/Co-PI Sponsoring
agency Amount in
Lakhs Start date End
date
1. Point-of-use and in-line water
quality sensors for smart
water management: Detection
of coliforms, fluoride and
Biochemical Oxygen Demand
(BOD) Meenu Chhabra,
Raviraj Vankayala,
Arpit Khandelwal,
Ravi Bhandari, Saakshi
Dhanekar, Kamaljit Rangra Jal Jeevan
Mission 72 Lakhs June 2022 June
2023
2. Inventorization of the wildlife
towards a sustainable campus Suchetana, Arun Kumar
Singh, Aashish Mathur,
Malyala Pavana Ravi
Sai Kiran, Debasis Das,
Rajendra Nagar, Pradeep
K. Tewari, Preeti Tiwari,
Anand K Plappally CETSD, IIT
Jodhpur 2 Lakhs
3. An endoscopic camera
system Amandeep, Deepak BIRAC – BIG 49.7 Lakhs 22nd
November
2021
4. A Wellness Device for
Real-time Non-contact
Blood Oxygen Saturation
Measurements Dr. Deepak Mishra (PI), Dr.
Amandeep Kaur (Co-PI) MSME 20 Lakhs 31st March
2020
5. Human Perception driven on-
chip compression for power
efficient CMOS image sensors Dr. Amandeep Kaur (PI), Dr.
Deepak Mishra (Co-PI) MSME 20 Lakhs 31st March
2020
Outreach activities
Publications
1.	

P. Shrivastava, M. Singh, N. Vadera, V. Chalka, S. Dhanekar*, K. Rangra, “A Photodetector-Based Automated Light 
Intensity Controlling System Using IoT”, Accepted in IEEE Sensors 2022, 29 Oct-2 Nov 2022, Dallas, USA.
2. 
Ranjan, P., Gaur, S., Yadav, H. et al. (2022), 2D Materials: Increscent Quantum Flatland with Immense Potential for 
Applications. Nano Convergence (Springer) 9, 26 https://doi.org/10.1186/s40580-022-00317-7
Projects
On-going Projects
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Quantum Information & 
Computation (QIC)
Introduction
Over the last century, Quantum Mechanics has emerged 
as a fundamental ingredient for understanding various 
facets of nature such as atomic and sub-atomic physics, 
quantum optics and a plethora of phenomena in 
condensed matter physics. Modern developments in 
computing could be said to have started from the work 
of Alan Turing, while information theory was put on the 
pedestal of modern science by the efforts of Claude 
Shannon. The amalgamation of quantum physics with 
computing and information theory could be historically 
traced from the works of EPR (Einstein, Podolsky and 
Rosen), followed by that of John Bell and culminating 
in efforts made by Charles Bennett. This was further 
cemented by the efforts of William Wootters. In the last 
three decades, the world has witnessed enormous 
progress on the theoretical front to investigate the 
foundations of quantum information, and to analyse 
the potentials offered by entanglement and nonlocal 
correlations towards computing. The ongoing debates, 
studies and creative intellect paved the way for a new 
computing paradigm with a promise of speed-up, 
efficiency, and enhanced security. In fact, the experimental 
developments over the last few decades have brought 
the subject of quantum information and computation to 
the threshold of technology development.
Handling, manipulating, and processing quantum 
information require control and protection of nonlocal 
correlations over quantum channels. The fragile nature 
of these correlations coupled with uncontrollable 
interactions with surroundings make the problem of 
scalability exponentially challenging. The increase in 
technological difficulties with the increase in number of
qubits 
should 
not 
be 
surprising 
considering 
that 
complexity 
is the characteristic trait of the theory in place. In fact, it 
is the complexity and potentials therein that motivate the 
academicians, industries and entrepreneurs to invest in 
the intellect and generate funding to resolve theoretical 
and technological challenges. Apart from academia 
across the globe, tech giants such as IBM, Google, 
Microsoft, D-Wave, Intel, Regetti, QuintessenceLabs, 
Hewlett Packard, Ion Q, Cambridge quantum computing 
Quantum Biosystems, and many more are addressing 
the issues related to control, gate fidelity and scalability- 
quantum error correction. Moreover, the Government of 
India has taken the cognizance of the area and initiated 
a new research program on Quantum Enabled Science 
& Technology (QuEST) and in the similar way the Ministry 
of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) has 
taken various initiatives.
Faculty details
At present, the following faculty members are 
associated with the IDRP-QIC:
1.	
Dr. Subhashish Banerjee, Department of Physics
2. Dr. V. Narayanan, Department of Physics
3. 
Dr. Debasish Das, Department of Computer Science 
and Engineering
4. Dr. Atul Kumar, Department of Chemistry
5. 
Dr. B Ravindra, Department of Mechanical 
Engineering
6. 
Dr. K J George, Department of Humanities and 
Social Science
7.	

Dr. Harshit Agarwal, Department of Electrical 
Engineering
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

8. 
Dr. Somitra Sanadhya, Department of Computer 
Science and Engineering
9. 
Dr. Kiran Kumar Hieramath, Department of 
Mathematics
10. Dr. Vivek Vijay, Department of Mathematics
11. 
Dr. Suman Kundu, Department of Computer Science 
and Engineering
Description of Research 
Groups
The Quantum Information and Computation (QIC) group 
at IIT Jodhpur is working towards analysing classical 
and quantum correlations from the perspective of 
a practical interface between quantum optics and 
quantum information processing. Such correlations 
occupy a central position in the quest for understanding 
and harvesting the power of quantum mechanics and 
fundamentals of quantum information processing. As 
a group, we are addressing some of the key issues 
in characterizing multiqubit entanglement. From the 
applications perspective, the spectrum includes, but 
is not limited to, quantum key distribution, quantum 
dense coding, quantum teleportation, quantum 
cryptography, quantum game theory and quantum 
secure communication. For a practical implementation 
of any quantum information task, it is important to 
consider the role of noise on the chosen task. The 
group is interested in the systematic study of quantum 
information and computation in realistic scenarios, 
including the effect of ambient noise, using ideas and 
techniques of Open Quantum Systems.
Academic Programmes
•

BS program with a specialization in Quantum 
Technology (slated to start from AY 2022-23)
•

M.Tech. in Quantum Technology (to be introduced)
•

B.Tech. minor in Quantum Information and 
Computation (QIC)
•

PhD in IDRP-QIC
•

A Science-linked elective titled “Fundamental 
of Quantum Information” offered to 2nd year 
undergraduate students
Significant Research 
Achievements
1. 
Open Quantum Systems: Dynamics of Nonclassical 
Evolutions: Book on Open Quantum Systems by Dr. 
Subhashish Banerjee published by Springer
(a) 
A new method developed to classify and 
quantify quantum non-Markovian (with memory) 
behaviour.
(b) 
An experimental method to verify quantum 
non-Markovianity with Unknown System-Probe 
Couplings developed and implemented.
3. 
Interface of Particle Physics with Quantum 
Information, Theories developed for:
(a) 
Neutrino oscillations imply quantum correlations 
and vice versa.
(b) 
Leggett-Garg inequalities in mesons and 
neutrinos probed.
4. Quantum Thermodynamics:
(a) 
Impact of non-Markovian effects on a quantum 
heat engine probed.
(b) 
The dynamics of a simplified version of a 
quantum thermal diode studied.
5. Quantum Optics:
(a) 
Properties of engineered quantum states 
studied.
(b) 
Dynamics of Tavis-Cummings model in the 
context of cavity quantum electrodynamics 
probed.
6. Entanglement and Nonlocality in Multiqubit systems:

An efficient generic approach based on cluster 
coefficients to classify and quantify entanglement 
and nonlocal correlations in multiqubit states is 
developed

Experimental Setup for Snapshot Verification of 
non-Markovianity
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

i)	
Femtosecond Laser
ii) Single Photon Detector
iii) Periodically Poled Non-linear Crystal (PPKTP)
Outreach activities
•

An Online Conference on Quantum Quantum 
Information and Computation: From Foundations to 
Applications – 2021 (QFA-2021), 18 Oct 2021 to 23 
Oct 2021
•

Faculty Members gave several lectures through 
Atal-FDP in Quantum Computing for knowledge 
sharing and discussions
Publications
1.	
Singha, C., & Banerjee, S. (2022). Thermal 
radiation in curved spacetime using influence 
functional formalism. Physical Review D, 
105(4). ISSN: 24700010. https://doi.org/10.1103/
PhysRevD.105.045020
2. Utagi, S., Banerjee, S., & Srikanth, R. (2021). On 
the non-Markovianity of quantum semi-Markov 
processes. Quantum Information Processing, 20(12). 
ISSN: 15700755. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11128-021-
03302-x
3. Lahiri, S., Banerjee, S., & Jayannavar, A. M. (2021). 
Exploring the extent of validity of quantum work
fluctuation theorems in the presence of weak 
measurements. Quantum Information Processing, 
20(11). ISSN: 15700755. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s11128-021-03260-4
4. Naikoo, J., Banerjee, S., Pan, A. K., & Ghosh, 
S. (2021). Projective measurements under 
qubit quantum channels. Physical Review A, 
104(4). ISSN: 24699926. https://doi.org/10.1103/
PhysRevA.104.042608
5. Mandal, S., & Banerjee, S. (2021). Local description 
of S-matrix in quantum field theory in curved 
spacetime using Riemann-normal coordinate. 
European Physical Journal Plus, 136(10). ISSN: 
21905444. https://doi.org/10.1140/epjp/s13360-021-
02037-z
6. Sarkar, R., Dutta, S., Banerjee, S., & Panigrahi, P. K. 
(2021). Phase squeezing of quantum hypergraph 
states. Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular and 
Optical Physics, 54(13). ISSN: 09534075. https://doi.
org/10.1088/1361-6455/ac02d2
7.	
Naikoo, J., Kumari, S., Banerjee, S., & Pan, A. K. 
(2021). PT symmetric evolution, coherence and 
violation of Leggett-Garg inequalities. Journal of 
Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical, 54(27). 
ISSN: 17518113. https://doi.org/10.1088/1751-8121/
ac0546
Laboratories and equipment
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

1. Quantum Heat Engines 2019-2023 ICPS, New Delhi
2. Generation of Entangled Photons and its application to Quantum
Computation and Information Processing 2019-2023 ICPS, New Delhi
3. Multiparticle Entanglement, Nonlocality and Quantum Information processing 2019-2022 SERB, New Delhi
4. Modelling and comparative analysis of approaches, protocols, atmospheric
effects and components of LEO satellite based Quantum Key Distribution 2022-2023 DRDO, Pune
5. Quantum cryptanalysis of symmetric cryptosystems. 2022-2023 DRDO
8. Ghosal, A., Das, D., & Banerjee, S. (2021). 
Characterizing qubit channels in the context 
of quantum teleportation. Physical Review A, 
103(5). ISSN: 24699926. https://doi.org/10.1103/
PhysRevA.103.052422
9. Utagi, S., Rao, V. N., Srikanth, R., & Banerjee, S. 
(2021). Singularities, mixing, and non-Markovianity 
of Pauli dynamical maps. Physical Review A, 
103(4). ISSN: 24699926. https://doi.org/10.1103/
PhysRevA.103.042610
10. Athira, B. S., Mandal, S., & Banerjee, S. (2021). 
Characteristics of interaction between gravitons and 
photons. European Physical Journal Plus, 136(4). 
ISSN: 21905444. https://doi.org/10.1140/epjp/s13360-
021-01361-8
11. Paulson, K. G., Panwar, E., Banerjee, S., & Srikanth, 
R. (2021). Hierarchy of quantum correlations under 
non-Markovian dynamics. Quantum Information 
Processing, 20(4). ISSN: 15700755. https://doi.
org/10.1007/s11128-021-03061-9
Outreach activities
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Robotics & Mobility Systems 
(RMS)
Introduction
The 
Inter-Disciplinary 
Research 
Platforms 
(IDRPs) 
on Robotics and Mobility Systems (RMS) is a multi-
disciplinary initiative with focus on solving open research 
problems requiring an integrated approach through the 
fusion of knowledge from multiple fields.
The vision of IDRP on RMS is to advance the 
interdisciplinary fields of robotics and mobility systems 
through development in modelling, control, multimodal 
perception, 
communication, 
AI/ML, 
and 
energy 
management systems to solve technological challenges 
in civil and military sectors to develop state-of-the-art 
applications.
The missions of IDRP on RMS are:
•

Develop an ecosystem to promote research and 
technology development in gound-, air- and water-
based mobile robots, and collaborative robots for 
defence and civilian applications.
•

To pursue indigenous research to cultivate 
technological solutions addressing growing 
demands in electric vehicles, autonomous vehicles, 
and drones.
•

To produce professionals with in-depth knowledge 
and analytical and experimental research skills to 
handle Robotics and Mobility Systems problems.
•

To generate adequate financial resources by 
establishing collaboration with industries, R & D 
organisations, and the government.
Scope of RMS-IDRP
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Faculty Details
The following Faculty Members from different 
Departments in the Institute are associated with this 
IDRP, in different areas:
Computer Vision and Haptics
1.	

Amit Bhardwaj, Department of Electrical 
Engineering
2. 
Anand Mishra, Department of Computer Science & 
Engineering
3. 
Himanshu Kumar, Department of Electrical 
Engineering
4. 
Manish Narwaria, Department of Electrical 
Engineering
5. 
Rajendra Nagar, Department of Electrical 
Engineering
6. 
Santanu Chaudhury, Department of Computer 
Engineering
Robotics and Control
1.	
Ashok Joshi, Mechanical Engineering
2. Anoop Jain, Department of Electrical Engineering
3. 
Deepakkumar M. Fulwani, Department of Electrical 
Engineering
4. 
Jayant Kumar Mohanta, Department of Mechanical 
Engineering
5. 
Niladri Sekhar Tripathy (Co-ordinator), Department 
of Electrical Engineering
6. 
Suril V. Shah, Department of Mechanical 
Engineering
Dynamics, Design and Manufacturing
1.	

Atul Kumar Sharma, Department of Mechanical 
Engineering
2. 
C. Venkatesan, Department of Mechanical 
Engineering
3. 
Kaushal A. Desai, Department of Mechanical 
Engineering
4. 
Nipun Arora, Department of Mechanical 
Engineering
Application Area
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Communication
1.	

Aashish Mathur, Department of Electrical 
Engineering
2. 
Arpit Khandelwal, Department of Electrical 
Engineering
3. 
Sai Kiran M. P. R., Department of Electrical 
Engineering
Drives and Battery Technology for Electric Vehicle, 
Traffic Management Systems
1.	

Nishant Kumar, Department of Electrical 
Engineering
2. Ranju Mohan, Civil Engineering
3. 
Srijan Sengupta, Metallurgical & Materials 
Engineering
Research Groups
The Thematic Areas of Research in this IDRP are:
•

Robotics: Research in Robotics aimed at 
overcoming challenges in perception, manipulation, 
navigation in unstructured and unknown dynamic 
environments with focus on application to defense, 
medical, manufacturing and social domains.
•

Mobility Systems: Research in Mobility Systems 
aimed at addressing challenges of future mobility 
in e-drive, autonomous driving, communication 
and control from the perspective of cyber-physical 
systems.
Academic Programmes
Phd Program: The Ph.D. program offered by the IDRP 
on RMS is one of the few nationwide programs where 
students can earn a doctorate in Robotics/Mobility 
Systems. The program is inherently interdisciplinary, 
bringing together areas of research that would 
otherwise be spread across different departments or 
separate universities.
M.Tech. Program: To meet the increasing demand 
for engineers with diverse backgrounds in the field of 
robotic and mobility systems, and to support relevant
research and development, an M.Tech. Programme 
in Robotics and Mobility System is designed. The 
M.Tech.programme provides interdisciplinary learning 
opportunities to participate in one of the most 
challenging advanced technology areas. It is also 
envisaged that the programme serves as a platform to 
test innovative ideas in the design, development, and 
testing of the Robotics and Mobility systems. Currently, 
we are offering the M.Tech. program in Robotics and 
Mobility Systems with micro specialisations in
1.	
Autonomous Mobile Robots [AMRs]
2. Unmanned Aerial Vehicles [UAVs]
3. Electric Vehicles (EVs)
B.Tech. Specialization: To provide an understanding of 
the interdisciplinary field of robotics to undergraduate 
students interested in pursuing careers or post 
graduate degrees in this field of interdisciplinary 
specialization in robotics for B.Tech. Students.
Laboratories and equipment
The IDRP RMS is in the process of developing a Lab for 
Unmanned Vehicles. The primary focus of this Lab will 
be to pursue research on Unmanned Vehicles. The Lab 
facility will also be used for the M.Tech. Students.
Outreach activities
IDRP RMS offered a one credit winter course on 
Deterministic Swarming Strategies for Unmanned 
Systems. The course covers topics as basic concept 
of swarming and its application to unmanned systems, 
Role of path planning in swarm generation and 
motion, Deterministic swarming strategies – Features 
& Benefits, Graph theory based swarm generation 
and path planning, Vector field based swarming 
methodology and path generation, Cyclic pursuit based 
swarms and their mobility.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Smart Healthcare 
(SH)
Introduction
The interdisciplinary platform in Smart Healthcare 
was established in 2019 with a vision to Emerge as an 
Interdisciplinary platform achieving excellence in devising 
smart healthcare solutions for diagnostics, therapeutics, 
and remote healthcare through multidisciplinary research 
and teaching, bringing disruption in the conventional 
health care regime.
The Smart Health Care IDRP aspires to create significant 
scientific and technological advancements in the area 
of Healthcare by bringing together a multidisciplinary 
team of scientists working in the interface of Biology, 
Chemistry, Healthcare & Engineering. The research 
is intended to focus on designing and developing 
sustainable 
solutions 
for 
point-of-care 
health 
devices, drug discovery, affordable diagnostics, bio-
compatible implants, and remote health care, including 
telemedicine. The IDRP platform is expected to support 
the development of various eHealth and mHealth based 
solutions for improving the quality of healthcare and 
making it available to large segments of the society.
The major objectives of this IDRP are:
•

Augmenting existing methods for medical research 
using machine learning and artificial intelligence 
based approaches.
•

Designing new and optimizing existing point-of-care 
health devices.
•

Identifying novel methods for early diagnosis and 
personalized therapeutics.
•

Creating a platform to use various electronic,
mechanical, and biosensors for improving the 
remote health care facilities.
•

Implementing translational outcome oriented 
various academic and research programs such 
as Biodesign, Medical Technology (Masters, PhD, 
and Master-PhD Jointly with AIIMS), AI and Ayush, 
PhD in Smart healthcare, and UG minor in Smart 
Healthcare.
•

Establishing start-ups and supporting entrepreneurs 
in the domain of smart healthcare through Bionest, 
Biodesign, Med Tech Park, Jodhpur City Knowledge 
and Innovation cluster (JCKIC), and several similar 
platforms..
•

Initiating a comprehensive research program to 
harvest the true potential of desert ecosystems.

The following schematic represents the key focus 
areas of research in the IDRP on Smart Health Care.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Faculty details
1.	
Raviraj Vankayala, Department of Bioscience and 
Bioengineering
2. Indranil Banerjee, Department of Bioscience and 
Bioengineering
3. Jaiveer Singh, , Department of Metallurgical and 
Materials Engineering
4. Ram Prakash, Department of Physics
5. Sushmita Jha, Department of Bioscience and 
Bioengineering
6. Meenu Chhabra, Department of Bioscience and 
Bioengineering
7.	
Samanwita Pal, Department of Chemistry
8. Sudipta Bhattacharya, Department of Bioscience 
and Bioengineering
9. Pankaj Yadav, Department of Bioscience and 
Bioengineering
10. Suchetna Chakraborty, Department of Computer 
Science and Engineering
11. Dip Sankar Banerji, Department of Computer 
Science and Engineering
12. Sumit Kalra, Department of Computer Science and 
Engineering
13. Anil K Tiwari, Department of Electrical Engineering
14. Saakshi Dhanekar, Department of Electrical 
Engineering
15. Ajay Agarwal, Department of Electrical Engineering
16. Mitali Mukerji, Department of Bioscience & 
Bioengineering
17. Manoj Chaudhary, Department of Electrical 
Engineering
18. Ravi KR, Department of Metallurgical and Materials 
Engineering
19. Hardik Kothadia, Department of Mechanical 
Engineering
20.	Surajit Ghosh, Department of Bioscience and 
Bioengineering
21. Pranay Ranjan, Department of Metallurgical and 
Materials Engineering
22.	Prasenjit Sarkar, Department of Chemical 
Engineering
23.	Dinesh Kumar Ahirwar, Department of Bioscience & 
Bioengineering
24.	Siddharth Srivastava, Department of Bioscience & 
Bioengineering
25.	Bala Pesala, Department of Bioscience & 
Bioengineering
Description of Research 
Groups
The platform currently has four prominent research 
groups even though the research activities of the 
platform revolves around several allied areas of 
smart healthcare including cancer informatics, digital 
healthcare, precision medicine, smart biodevices and 
so on.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Academic Program
Scope
1.	
The program will provide opportunities to assimilate 
the cutting-edge knowledge in the domain of 
medical and technological science to address 
the current and future challenges in the global 
problems of healthcare sectors
2. The program will also encourage the health-techno 
innovators to initiate a start-up and venture into 
entrepreneurship.
3. The program will encompass broad areas related 
to but not limited to: bio-device development, 
imaging-based diagnostics, deep-tech solutions, 
and telemedicine
4. The program plans to utilize the individual interests 
of students and tailor the course work to enable the 
doctors and engineers to work jointly to meet the 
challenges of healthcare.
Salient Features
1.	
First program in India that provides an opportunity 
to the medical professionals and engineers to learn 
and share knowledge under a trans-disciplinary 
academic umbrella.
2. The program is designed to cater to the emerging 
needs of innovation and improvisation in the field of 
healthcare technologies.
3. Unique opportunity for the students to work under 
the joint guidance of a faculty member of AIIMS, 
Jodhpur and IIT Jodhpur in the emerging areas of 
healthcare technologies.
4. State of the art research infrastructure of AIIMS, 
Jodhpur and IIT Jodhpur for research and 
innovation.
IIT Jodhpur-AIIMS Jodhpur Joint Programs (Masters, 
Masters-PhD Dual Degree and PhD) in Medical 
Technologies
Mission
A Multi-disciplinary program to produce deep-tech 
innovators in the field of Medical Technologies
Why a Multi-disciplinary Program on Innovation in 
Healthcare?
A. 
Technology’s nonlinear pace of progress will 
almost certainly create substantial market 
disruption in healthcare, spawning wave after 
wave of opportunities for traditional healthcare 
organizations, and new start-up companies alike.
B. 
There is a need for professionals with a 
multi-disciplinary background with training in 
entrepreneurship and business dynamics for 
meeting the challenges of future transformations of
healthcare technology. This cannot be done by only 
medical practitioners or engineers or management 
professionals.
C. 
The programme targets to generate manpower with 
multi-dimensional capability of creative thinking, 
deep knowledge and strong sense of business.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

5. The program offers unique combinations of core 
subjects, flexible electives and a year and half long 
innovation and entrepreneurship oriented research 
project. Students will have the flexibility to pursue 
academic and research interests.
6. The students will be encouraged to compete for 
different fellowships and grants offered by the 
institute and other extramural funding agencies.
7.	
The program aims to nurture entrepreneurship skills 
leading to the acquisition/generation of Intellectual 
Property by providing business incubation 
facilities along with seed-finance to students on a 
competitive basis.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

The Teaching-Learning Process
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Core courses
Building basic Cross disciplinary Understanding
Courses for Candidates with Engineering Background
To be exposed to fundamentals of human biology
•
Fundamentals of Physiology
•
Fundamentals of Anatomy
Courses for Candidates with Medical Background
To be exposed to fundamentals of technology 
components which are significantly impacting the 
domain of the healthcare
•
Introduction to Machine Learning
•
Biomedical Signals and Systems
Innovation and Entrepreneurship in Health Care
•

Introduction to the theory and practice of innovation 
and entrepreneurship in health care settings.
•

The first half of the sessions focus on aspects of 
starting & growing a new health care business (for-
profit or non-profit).
•

The second half of the sessions focus on fostering 
innovation and entrepreneurship in established 
organizations (non-profit, for-profit or governmental 
organizations) engaged in health care or related.
By the end of the course, students are able to:
•

Analyze the idea, value proposition, team, business 
model, financing and execution of any early stage 
healthcare company and make recommendations 
for improvement.
•

Assess the innovation environment, challenges and 
barriers for any established health care company 
and make recommendations for improvement.
•

Generate new, innovative solutions to optimize 
resources and improve outcomes in health care.
Immersion
•

Each team (typically an Engineer and a Doctor) 
delves deeply into one or more (maximum three) 
specific clinical area by direct immersion in relevant 
inpatient and outpatient settings.
•

Over the course of several weeks, the students 
document their clinical observations with the goal of 
creating a list of needs.
•

The next step in the process is the development of 
a need statement carefully crafted to capture the 
essence of the need.
•

In effect, it is a mission statement, serving as the 
driving force behind the team’s efforts to solve the 
identified need.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No. Name of the
students Enrolment
year Topic Supervisors
1. Nikhil Vadera 2020 Breath based diagnosis Saakshi Dhanekar Meenu
Chhabra
2 Ritesh Mishra 2020 Plasma based food sterilization Ram Prakash Meenu Chhabra
3. Nabanita Mukerji 2019 Smart-Engineered Soft Biomaterials as
Therapeutics. Prof. Surajit Ghosh
4. Surojit Ghosh 2019 Engineered Utrophin Agonist Chemical
Tool-box Developed for Discovery of
Potential Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy
Therapeutic Lead. Prof. Surajit Ghosh
5 Ramkamal Samat 2019 Peptide Based Therapeutics to combat
antimicrobial resistance and infection Prof. Surajit Ghosh
6 Aniket Jana 2019 Next Generation Chemical Regulator for
Neural Regeneration: Development of
Potential Neuroregenerative Medicine Prof. Surajit Ghosh Dr.
Prasunpriya Nayak, AIIMS,
Jodhpur
7. Netra Hiremath 2020 Nanotheranostic platform to combat
Ischemic stroke Raviraj Vankayala, Ravi KR
Elective courses
•
Electronic Nose for health monitoring
•
Molecular Techniques for Precision medicine
•
Biomaterials
•
Imaging Applications in Healthcare
•
MEMS Technology for Biomedical Applications
•
Drug Designing and Development
•
Introduction to Medical Robotics
•
AI Applications in Healthcare
•
BioMEMS
•
Plasma Medicine
•
Tissue Engineering: From bench to clinics
•
Telemedicine: Technology and Frameworks
•
Microfluidics based Point–of-Care diagnostics
•
Overview of Drug Designing and Development
•
Medical 3D Printing
•
Wearable Devices
•
Genomic medicine
•
3D Bioprinting
•
Point of care diagnostics
•
Enzymes and Enzyme Kinetics
•
Biomedical Nanomaterials
•

Modern tools and Techniques used in Drug 
designing and Development
•
Experimental Techniques in Tissue Engineering
The platform also offers:
A) 
Interdisciplinary Specialization in Smart healthcare 
to final year UG students.
B) 
Regular Ph.D. in Smart healthcare
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No. Name of the
students Enrolment
year Topic Supervisors
8. Arpita Ghosal 2020 3-D Bioprinting of vascular tissue Indranil Banerji Ravi KR
9. Supriya Suman 2019 Fundus Image analysis for diagnosis of
ocular diseases Anil Tiwari Kuldeep Singh
(AIIMS Jodhpur)
10. Midhuna K 2021 Structural elucidation of therapeutic
targets and molecules Samanwita Pal Sudipta
Bhattacharya
11. Ranjan K Mishra 2021 Design of implants Jaiveer Singh Indranil banerji
12. Dinesh Chaudhary 2021 - Supervisor to be allocated
13. Vipul Srivastava 2022 - Supervisor to be allocated
14. Om Lata Bhagat 2020 Estimation of Cardiovascular system Anil K Tiwari Abhinav Dixit
(AIIMS Jodhpur)
15. Sudesh Pachar 2020 LFA for tuberculosis Anil K Tiwari Pradeep Dwivedi
(AIIMS Jodhpur)
Significant Research Achievements
Pitch your innovation Meeting- 17th Nov 2021
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Biodesign expert panel of Dr Ayesha Chaudhury, Dr 
Avijit Bansal, Dr Nitin Sisodia, and Dr Pulin Raje. The 
criteria for evaluation was:
1) Need Statement Clarity
2) How innovative and novel is the solution.
3) Stage of innovation in terms of TRL
4) Quality of the presentation and Teamwork
5) 
Overall stakeholder engagement- Real-world 
connect
Faculty Laurels
1.	
Dr. Ram Prakash was Elected as Vice-President of 
the Plasma Science Society of India (PSSI) for the 
term 2022-2024.
2. Dr Sushmita Jha was awarded ISNO President’s 
award for Outstanding work in Neuro-Oncology 
2022.
3. Dr Sushmita Jha presented Medical Technologies 
Innovations to the Honourable Vice President to 
IIT Jodhpur on 28th Sep 2021, during his visit to IIT 
Jodhpur.
4. Dr Sushmita Jha coordinated the Medtech 
showcase at the Technology Innovation and Startup 
Center (TISC) IIT Jodhpur 7th convocation of IIT 
Jodhpur, and the visit of Dr. Rajesh S Gokhale 
(Secretary, Department of Biotechnology, Govt of 
India) and Dr. R Chidambaram (Chairman Board of 
Governors, IITJ), 18th December 2021.
5. Dr Sushmita Jha Invited lectures:
•
International Symposium on “Proteins and 
Biology”, Department of Biochemistry, Faculty 
of Science, The M. S. University of Baroda, 
Vadodara, 28th February 2022-1st March 
2022
•
XXXIX Annual Meeting of Indian Academy 
of Neurosciences (IAN) Theme: “NeuroGlia 
in Health and Disease” organized by Indian 
Institute of Science Education and Research 
Kolkata, Netaji Subhas Open University & CSIR-
Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, 16th to 19th 
December 2021
•
Invited talk by the Board of Governors, IIT 
Jodhpur, 8th October 2021
•
Invited talk on MedTech, BSBE Industry Day 
2022, “Building a Medtech Ecosystem at IIT 
Jodhpur: Biodesign and Beyond” 15th April 
2022
•
6. Dr. Siddharth Srivastava, Invited talks/ Case 
discussions:
•
Indian Cooperative Oncology Network (ICON) 
conference, Pune. Molecular Oncology 
workshop: Oct 2nd 2021
•
Association of Maharashtra Medical Oncologists 
(AMMO) conference at Shirdi: 15th July 2022
•
Optimal Management of NSCLC meeting, 
Vedanta Hospitals, Ahmedabad: 6 Aug 2022
•
Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of 
Medical Sciences (SGPGI Lucknow), Diagnostic 
Update & Molecular Advances in Endocrine 
Organ Lesions, Sept 2022
Student Laurels
1.	
Misaal Khan, 2020, Masters- PhD (MedTech)
•
“Travel grant for in person attendance at Wicv, 
CVPR at New Orleans, Lousiana, USA
•
Paper accepted at Wicv, CVPR 2022 New 
Orleans, Lousiana, USA
•
Poster presentation at CVPR 2022 New 
Orleans, Lousiana, USA
•
Review paper on “”Role of AI in maternal and 
neonatal health”” accepted at Frontiers in Public 
health journal
•
Second position in iS3: iDeathon on Sustainable 
Smart Systems”
2. Thilak Chakravarthy, 2020, Masters (MedTech):
•
Selected for the PadUp ventures Acceleration 
Program cohort of 2022.
•
Selected for seed grant fund through MSME 
Innovation contest “Idea Hackathon 2022”.
3. Varun Khandelwal (MedTech)
•
Best innovator Award in Bioinnovate 
Competition at National Bioengineering 
Conference-2022, NIT-Rourkela
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

•
Participated in Oral Presentation Competition 
at National Bioengineering Conference-2022, 
NIT-Rourkela
•
Winner of MEDHA-2022, BETiC, IIT-Bombay
•
Marathwada Medtech Lab, Aurangabad offered 
the RPT (Rapid Prototyping) service coupons 
worth Rs. 20000/-
4. Rajshree 2020, Masters (MedTech)
•
Project collaboration with Johari Digital, 
entrepreneurial mentoring by Pad Up Ventures
5. Umme Abiha, 2021, PhD (MedTech)
•
Best Poster presentation for excellence in 
research in Pharmaceutical Sciences Category 
along with a cash prize during 3rd National 
Biomedical Research Competition NBRCOM 
2021 under the aegis of SYBS, India.
6. 
Varun Khandelwal and Sayak Sarkar (MedTech) 
were awarded, Best Innovator Award at Bioinnovate 
competition at the National Bioengineering 
Conference 2022 held at NIT Rourkela
7.	

Manik Sejwal(MedTech): 3rd position in Tech4Seva 
Summit 2022 Regional level 3rd National 
Biomedical Research Competition (NBRCOM 2021), 
Date: 6-10th December 2021, Organized By: AIIMS 
Rishikesh, JNU Delhi, PGIMER Chandigarh, NIPER 
Mohali, CSIR-CDRI Lucknow, CSIR-IITR Lucknow, 
AIIMS Jodhpur
8. 
Ajmal Jaleel (MedTech) was Awarded Young 
Researcher Award (First), Category: Health Science, 
Title of Study: Automated vulva and anus cleaning 
machine for mentally and physically challenged 
people (Rehabilitation Robotics)
9. 
Umme Abiha (MedTech) was Awarded Award of 
Appreciation, Category: Life Science, Title of Study: 
To study the impact of a rare crocus sativus on 
breast carcinogenesis
10. 
6 students have applied for different funding 
schemes including (BIG, MSME, PMRF)
Laboratories and equipment
Facilities established under Bionest
1.	
Cell culture facility
a. C02 Incubator
b. Laminar Air Flow
c. Centrifuge for cell culture
d. 4 Degree Celsius Refrigerator
e. Automated Cell counter
h. Ice Maker
f. Inverted Microscope
g. Upright Microscope
2. Biosafety cabinet, refrigerators
a. Refrigerators
i. 4 degree celsius
ii. -20 degree celsius
iii. -80 degree celsius
3. Food quality testing equipments
a. 
Decagon Aqualab water activity meter 
(Decagon water activity meter)
Outreach activities
1.	
Ram Prakash demonstrated Novel Cold-plasma 
Detergent in Environment (CODE) Device in the 
Exhibition organized during the visit of Hon’ble 
Vice President of India Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu at 
Jodhpur City Knowledge and Innovation Cluster on 
28th September 2021.
2. Ram Prakash demonstrated the Novel CODE 
Device and Small-scale Milk Disinfection System 
in the Exhibition organized on the eve of the 7th 
Convocation of IIT Jodhpur at the Innovation 
Complex on 18th December 2021.
3. Ram Prakash demonstrated the Novel CODE 
Device and Small-scale Milk Disinfection System to 
Prof. Samir K. Brahmachari, Ex-DG, CSIR during the 
product showcasing on the 10th March 2022.
4. Dr Sushmita Jha is a Co-organizer of EMBO India 
Investigator Network seminar series
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

5. Dr Sushmita Jha Initiated and organized Biodesign 
Workshop, 10th -12 May 2022. Hosted Dr Ayesha 
Chaudhury, Adjunct Professor of Practice at IIT 
Jodhpur and officer on special duty at the office 
of the principal scientific advisor, Govt of India. Dr 
Chaudhury is an alumnus of Stanford Biodesign 
fellow and IIT-Bombay. She was part of the 
founding team of Atal Innovation Mission and is 
also a founder and director of windmill healthcare 
technologies. The program was open to all faculty 
colleagues (from IITJ and AIIMSJ), MTech and PhD 
students.
6. Dr Sushmita Jha organized a Biodesign Workshop 
10th -12th May 2022
7.	
Dr Sushmita Jha was an Invited speaker at ‘Career 
Convention’ event held at Sri Aurobindo Centre of 
New Education, Jodhpur, 24th July 2021,
8. Dr Sushmita Jha was the Moderator on “National 
Technology Day” panel discussion on “MedTech for 
the Future”, 11th May2022.
1.	
Kiran, Ramavtar, Shivam Chaturvedi, Chandra 
Prakash, Ambesh Dixit, Deepak Fulwani, Ankur 
Gupta, Neha Jain, Vibhor Tak and Ram Prakash 
“Photocatalytic Oxidation Conveyor ‘PCOC’ 
System for Large Scale Surface Disinfection” Rev. 
Sci. Instrum. 93, 074101 (2022). DOI https://doi.
org/10.1063/5.0082222
2. Antony Vincy, Sarmistha Mazumder, Indranil 
Banerjee, Kuo Chu Hwang, “Recent Progress in Red 
Blood Cells-Derived Particles as Novel Bioinspired 
Drug Delivery Systems: Challenges and Strategies 
for Clinical Translation”, Frontiers in Chemistry 2022, 
10, 905256. DOI: 10.3389/fchem.2022.905256.
3. Netra Hiremathꝉ, Rahul Kumarꝉ, Kuo Chu Hwang, 
Indranil Banerjee, Suresh Thangudu, Raviraj 
Vankayala*, “Near-Infrared Light Activatable 
Two-Dimensional Nanomaterials for Theranostic 
Applications: A Comprehensive Review”, ACS 
Applied Nanomaterials, 2022, 5, 2, 1719. DOI: 
10.1021/acsanm.2c00170.
4. Justy N. Francis,Indranil Banerjee,Ankita 
Chugh,Jaiveer Singh, “Additive manufacturing 
of polyetheretherketone and its composites: A 
review”, Polymer Composites, 2022, In press. DOI: 
doi.org/10.1002/pc.26961.
5. Pranay Ranjan, Snehraj Gau, Himanshu Yadav, 
Ajay B. Urgunde, Vikas Singh, Avit Patel, Kusum 
Vishwakarma, Deepak Kalirawana, Ritu Gupta, 
Prashant Kumar, “2D materials: increscent quantum
fatland with immense potential for applications”, 
Nano Convergence 9, 26 (2022). https://doi.
org/10.1186/s40580-022-00317-7
6. S. Ghosh, S. Garg, N. Mukherjee, S. Ghosh, 
(2022). Facile Method of Tubulin Purification from 
Goat Brain for Reconstitution of Microtubule-
Associated Intracellular Function. In: Inaba, H. (eds) 
Microtubules. Methods in Molecular Biology, vol 
2430. Humana, New York, NY. DOI: https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-1-0716-1983-4_2
7.	
N Mukherjee, R Roy, S Ghosh, S Ghosh. “Self‐
Assembled Antimitotic Peptide Vesicle Designed 
from α, β‐Tubulin Heterodimer Interface for 
Anticancer Drug Delivery”, Israel Journal of 
Chemistry (2022). DOI: https://doi.org/10.1002/
ijch.202200019
8. P. Mondal, S. Mohapatra, D. Bhunia, P. Kumar 
Gharai, N. Mukherjee, V. Gupta, S. Ghosh, S. Ghosh 
“Designed hybrid anticancer nuclear-localized 
peptide inhibits aggressive cancer cell proliferation” 
RSC Med. Chem., 2022,13, 196-201, DOI: 10.1039/
D1MD00324K
9. Surajit Ghosh, Nabanita Mukherjee, Satyajit Ghosh, 
Rajsekhar Roy. Amyloid-Inspired Antibacterial 
hydrogel –A potential biocompatible wound 
healing material. Provisional Patent Application No. 
202211032081 Dated 04-06-2022 in India
Publications & Patents
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Projects
1.	
Development of an AI platform for human health. 
Funding Agency : MEITy 386.54 Lakhs 2020 – 
2023; Team: Professor Santanu Chaudhury, Dr. 
Sushmita Jha, Dr. Sumit Kalra, Dr. Sushmita Paul, 
and several other consortium investigators.
2. BioNEST: For providing incubations to Start ups and 
entrepreneurs DBT-BIRAC 445.47 Lakhs, 2021-
2024; Team: Professor Surajit Ghosh and several 
participants, Med Tech students
3. Biodesign: Establishing Biodesign labs for medtech. 
DBT, 300 lakhs Team: Dr. Ravi KR, Dr. Sushmita Jha, 
Dr. Saakshi Dhanekar MedTech and SH students
4. CSR Funds received through Siemens (2022). Team 
Dr, Sushmita Jha Med Tech students. 20 Lakhs
5. Center for rare disease Duchenne muscular 
dystrophy Prof Surajit Ghosh, Dr. Sudipta 
Bhattacharya, Dr. Nirmal Rana and Dr. Dibyendu 
Sasmal, faculty members from AIIMS Jodhpur DST 
(2022 onwards)
6. Development of Transparent, Durable 
superhydrophobic-coating for self-cleaning of 
Endoscope. MSME 15 Lakhs Dr. Ravi K R & Mr. 
Subburayalu.
7.	
Developing Endoscope Socket to provide an 
uninterrupted endoscopic visual field. MSME 15 
lakhs Mr. Thilak Chakravarthy, Dr. Ravi K R and Dr. 
Amit Goyal (approved).
8. Forecasting COVID-19 spatio-temporal disease 
spread patterns and establishing predictive factors 
through the analysis of large data inconclusive/
repeat tests and associated testing data. Budget 
: 21.2 lakhs. (Submitted to ICMR Extramural Call). 
Team Members: Dr. Dip Sankar Banerjee (IITJ), Dr. 
Saptarshi Mandal (AIIMS J), Dr. Asmita Hazra (Govt. 
Medical College Pali) (Approved)
CSR funding
Siemens-supported Pre-incubation incentive program 
for Medical Technology Students; Funds: 21 Lakhs; 
Transferred to TISC for incubation support Projects 
offered incubation support after evaluation of pitch:
1.	
Thilak Chakravarthy: Developing Socket-Based 
Anti-Fogging Lens for ENT Endoscopes
2. Anup Kakwani : Manual mechanical device for root 
canal irrigation through Apical Negative Pressure
3. Rajshree : Continuous BP monitoring using a 
convenient non-invasive cuffless device.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Space Science & Technology 
(SST)
Introduction
The space science and technology (SST) inter 
disciplinary research platform (IDRP) at IIT Jodhpur has 
been formed in 2019 to cater to the growing demands 
on space sector research in the country. The proposed 
research programme on Space Science and Technology 
will be a collective multi-disciplinary effort to address 
key scientific and engineering issues in understanding 
and exploiting space. The space being so vast 
and varied with an almost infinite number of stellar 
objects and perhaps a greater number of unknowns 
than known, offers huge opportunities to carry out 
fundamental research to develop better understanding 
of the Universe. Further, space also offers a wide 
range of opportunities for its exploitation for a number 
of technological applications such as space vehicles, 
satellite technologies, remote sensing using sensors 
operating over a range of wavelength regions including 
visible, infrared, microwave, etc. It comprises both the 
science as well as engineering/technology components. 
These can be thought as the following:
1.	

Develop scientific and technological tools including 
certain specialized payloads for the furtherance 
of research in basic or fundamental science, 
particularly in the exploration of the Universe.
2. 
Technology advancement can be achieved with
a. Pure technological development
b. Translation of basic research into technology.

The program will be based on system approach 
involving multidisciplinary subjects wherein 
a set of complex problems pertaining to the
Space Science and Technology will be taken up 
involving several sub-activities such as design 
and development of sub-components including 
materials modelling, experimental realization, 
component modelling and fabrication, 
integration, and its validation as a complete 
system/sub-system.
Faculty Details
1.	
Dr. Arun Kumar R, Department of Mechanical 
Engineering
2. Dr. Arun Kumar Singh, Department of Electrical 
Engineering
3. Dr. Anand Krishnan Plappally, Department of 
Mechanical Engineering
4. Dr. Mahesh Kumar, Department of Electrical 
Engineering
5. Dr. Ankur Gupta, Department of Mechanical 
Engineering
6. Dr. Reetanjali Moharana, Department of Physics
7.	
Dr. Angan Sengupta, Department of Chemical 
Engineering
8. Dr. Barun Pratiher, Department of Mechanical 
Engineering
9. Dr. Prashant Kumar Gupta, Department of Materials 
& Metallurgical Engineering
10. Dr. Jayant Kumar Mohanta, Department of 
Mechanical Engineering
11. Dr. Nirmalya Bachhar, Department of Materials & 
Metallurgical Engineering
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

12. Dr. Rahul Chhibber, Department of Mechanical 
Engineering
13. Dr. Ashok Joshi, Department of Mechanical 
Engineering
14. Dr. Chandan Pandey, Department of Mechanical 
Engineering
Publications
Journal Publications in IDRP-SST
1.	
Singh, S. K., & R, Arun. K. (2021). A parametric 
study on the fluid dynamics and performance 
characteristic of Micronozzle flows. Journal of 
Fluids Engineering, ASME, 144(3). https://doi.
org/10.1115/1.4052546
2. Nipun Sharma, Adarsh Nigam, Dimitry Lobanov, 
Ankur Gupta, Alexey Novikov, and Mahesh Kumar. 
“ Mercury (II) Ion Detection using AgNWs MoS2 
Nanocomposite on GaN HEMT for IoT Enabled 
Smart Water Quality Analysis”. IEEE Internet of 
Things https://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2021.3071382
3. Nipun Sharma, Adarsh Nigam, Ankur Gupta, Sudhiranjan 
Tripathy, and Mahesh Kumar. “1T and 2H Heterophase 
MoS2 for Enhanced Sensitivity of GaN transistor-based 
Mercury ions Sensor”. IOP Nanotechnology https://doi.
org/10.1088/1361-6528/ac5cff
4. Nipun Sharma, Sumit Kumar, Ankur Gupta, Surani 
Bin Dolmanan, Dharmraj Subhash Kotekar Patil, 
Swee Tiam Tan, Sudhiranjan Tripathy, and Mahesh 
Kumar “Influence of gas molecules on 2D electron 
gas of AlGaN/GaN transistor: Room temperature 
NO2 gas sensor”. Sensors and Actuators: A https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.sna.2022.113647
5. Nipun Sharma, Vikas Pandey, Ankur Gupta, Swee 
Tiam Tan, Sudhiranjan Tripathy, and Mahesh 
Kumar. “Recent progress on Group III-nitride based 
Gas Sensors: A Review” https://doi.org/10.1039/
D2TC02103J
6. Nigam Adarsh, Nipun Sharma, Dmitry Lobanov, 
Alexey Novikov, and Mahesh Kumar. “Ultrasensitive 
Detection of Mercury Ions Under UV Illumination 
of MoS2 Functionalized AlGaN/GaN Transistor.” 
67, no. 12 (2020): 5693- 5700. IEEE Transactions 
on Electron Devices https://doi.org/10.1109/
TED.2020.3030000
7.	
Adarsh Nigam, Nipun Sharma, Sudhiranjan 
Tripathy and Mahesh Kumar “Development of 
Semiconductor Based Heavy Metal Ion Sensors for 
Water Analysis: A Review” Sensors and Actuators: A 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sna.2021.112879
Conferences Attended/Paper 
present in IDRP-SST:
1.	
Himanchal Aman Meena, Sunil Duhan, Meraj 
Ahmad, Pankaj Jakhar, Aswathy Puthukkulam, 
Vinayak Shedekar, Asmita Murumkar, Anand 
Plappally,Plappally,“Modelling of Jojari river in semi-
arid western Rajasthan, India using the geospatial 
techniques and 1 D flow model Analysis” BRICS NUs 
Water Resource and Pollution Treatment [WRPT21] 6 
th 8 th July, 2021, NIT Jodhpur, IIT Kanpur.
2. Attendee at IEEE-ICEE 2020 (5th International 
Conference on Emerging Electronics) scheduled on 
26th to 28th November 2020 hosted by IIT Delhi.
3. Attendee at International Winter School-2020 
on “Frontiers in Materials Science”, hosted at the 
Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific 
Research, scheduled on December 07-11, 2020.
4. Oral Presentation in MRSI AGM, IIT Madras (20th 
December-23rd December 2021).
5. Poster Presentation in IEEE IWPSD, IIT Delhi 
2021(14th December-17th December 2021).
6. Participated in Online Elementary FDP on “Nano-
Sensors” at IIT Jodhpur conducted by AICTE 
Training And Learning (ATAL) Academy from 5th 
July- 9th July 2021.
Academic Programmes
The SST IDRP is currently offering only PhD program 
and there are currently 6 students pursuing PhD under 
this program
Faculty Laurels
Ankur Gupta received “SERB International Research 
Experience fellowship” for the year 2022-2023 by 
the Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), 
Department of Science and Technology, Government of 
India. The fellowship has been approved for research
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

visit at the Institute of Microstructure Technology, 
Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, (Germany)
Student Laurels
•

The student Mr. Nipun Sharma (IDRPSST003) 
received the prestigious PMRF fellowship
•

The student Mr.Vikas Pandey (P20SS201) received
the prestigious PMRF fellowship
Laboratories and equipment
Shock Waves and High-Speed Flow (SWAHS) Lab:
The SWAHS lab tries to advance the frontiers of
research activities and technology development in the 
field of Aerospace and Defence sector. We also focus 
on extending the high-speed flows and shock waves 
research to other applications such as refrigeration 
systems, Bio-Medical engineering, Industrial processing, 
Water processing etc. Some of the existing research 
activities undertaken in these directions are, Supersonic 
Intakes, Supersonic Air-Fuel Mixing in Scramjet 
Combustors, Flow control and Actuators, Gas Turbine 
Cooling, Electric Propulsion Systems, Shock & Blast 
Wave Attenuation, Shock waves applications in Bio-
Medical Engineering, Solar Ejector Refrigeration, Steam 
Ejector based Water Purification etc.
High Speed Imaging
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Project title PI/Co-PI Sponsoring agency Amount
in Lakhs Start date End date
Cross Flows Flapping Jets for
Supersonic Mixing Enhancement PI: Dr. Arun Kumar R Co-
PI: Dr. Hardik.B. Kothadia Aeronautics Research
Development Board –
DRDO 24.89
Lakh 30th Sep
2020 30th Sep
2023
Film Cooling for Ejector Diffuser System
in High Altitude Testing Facility PI: Dr. Arun Kumar R Co-
PI: Dr. Hardik.B. Kothadia ISRO Respond 27.9 lakh 24th March
2021 24th March
2023
Radiation hard Gallium Nitride transistor
for IoT enabled dosimeter PI: Dr. Mahesh Kumar DRDO 92.08
Lakh 7th Feb
2022 7th Feb
2025
High-Pressure Storage Facility
Open Jet Facility
Electrospray Thruster System
Electrospray Thruster
Outreach activities
•
Organized a three day talk series (7th-9th October 2021) as part of International Space Week
•

Organized a talk session by Professor Lazar Chitilappilly (Prof. of Practice IIT Madras, former Projector 
Director Scramjet Engines, ISRO) on ScramJet Engines for Hypersonic Vehicles
Projects
On-going Projects
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Schools

School of Artificial Intelligence 
and Data Science (SAIDE)
Introduction
Breakthroughs in AI and Data Science are key to shaping 
the future technological landscape. AI and Data Science 
is impacting progress of diverse disciplines of natural 
sciences, different fields of engineering and medicine, 
social sciences, and economics. In order to be at the 
forefront of this emerging technological frontier, School 
of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science (AIDE) was 
established at IIT Jodhpur in July 2020 with the vision to 
advance the field of AI and Data Sciences for the good 
of humanity.
The School aims to play a leading role in research, 
teaching and training in AI and its applications. The School 
also focuses on developing AI based technologies 
aligned to the locally and nationally relevant problems 
and challenges.
AIDE School brings together faculty from diverse 
disciplines with shared interests in fundamental 
challenges in AI and Data Science to make significant
contributions in this field. Currently there are 50 faculty 
in the School which includes 42 affiliated faculty from 10 
different departments and schools.
The School of AI and Data Science envisions the following 
transdisciplinary Centers of Excellence in its initial phase. 
Out of these the first four are already in place.
1.	
Brain Science and Applications
2. Mathematical and Computational Economics
3. Intelligent Infrastructure
4. AI based Integrative Precision Health
5. Language Technology
6. Human Centered AI
7.	
Guarantees for Machine Learning
8. AI and Ethical Challenges
9. Quantum AI
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Faculty details
Prof. Neeraj Jain
Head of School
Department: Biosciences & 
Bioengineering
Affiliation: Center for Brain Sciences & 
Applications
Neuroscience/Mammalian Sensory 
and Motor Systems; Tactile 
Information Processing; Brain 
Plasticity; Spinal Cord Injuries; Brain-
Computer Interface; Brain Networks
Dipanjan Roy
Associate Professor
Affiliation: Center for Brain Science 
and Applications
Coordinator: Center for Brain Science 
and Applications
Network Neuroscience, Multimodal 
data fusion and EEG-MEG, fMRI brain 
signal decoding, Eye tracking and 
Human behavior, Cognitive aging and 
brain flexibility
Ganesh Manjhi
Assistant Professor
Affiliation: Center for Mathematical 
and Computational Economics
Macroeconomics, Political Economy, 
Growth Economics, Applied 
Econometrics and Forecasting
Somitra Sanadhya
Associate Professor
Cryptography; Quantum Computation
Abhinaba Lahiri
Assistant Professor
Affiliation: Center for Mathematical 
and Computational Economics
Social Choice Theory, Mechanism 
Design, Game Theory
Dweepobotee Brahma
Assistant Professor
Affiliation: Center for Mathematical 
and Computational Economics
Econometrics, Causal Inference and 
Machine Learning, Health Economics
Shilpa Dang
Assistant Professor
Affiliation: Center for Brain Science 
and Applications
Computational Cognitive 
Neuroscience; Connectomics; fMRI; 
Pupillometry
S. Srivatsa Srinivas
Assistant Professor
Affiliation: Center for Mathematical 
and Computational Economics
Queueing Game Theory, Service 
Operations, Game Theory 
Applications, Public Policy Modeling
School of AIDE
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Affiliated Faculty
Mitali Mukerji
Professor
Affiliation: Center for Excellence in 
Integrative Precision Health
Coordinator: Center for Excellence in 
Integrative Precision Health
Genomics, Human molecular 
genetics, functional genomics of Alu 
repeats, Ayurgenomics, genetics of 
rare diseases
Pradip Kumar Tewari
Visiting Professor
AI/ ML based Performance Analysis 
of Process Equipment and Chemical 
Industries, Smart Water Grid.
P. Ravi Prakash
Assistant Professor
Affiliation: Center for Intelligent 
Infrastructure
Coordinator: Center for Intelligent 
Infrastructure
Computational Mechanics, Structural Fire 
Engineering, Discrete Element Method
Pankaj Yadav
Assistant Professor
Statistical Genetics, Deep Learning 
and Big Data Analytics
Neeraj Jain
Professor
Affiliation: Center for Brain Sciences & 
Applications
Neuroscience/Mammalian Sensory 
and Motor Systems; Tactile 
Information Processing; Brain 
Plasticity; Spinal Cord Injuries; Brain-
Computer Interface; Brain Networks
Angan Sengupta
Assistant Professor
Multiscale Modeling and Simulations, 
Computational Material Design, Fire 
and Explosion Dynamics and Safety 
Modeling, Transport Processes 
Modeling and Simulations
Ranju Mohan
Assistant Professor
Affiliation: Center for Intelligent 
Infrastructure
Traffic flow modelling and simulation, 
Driver behavior analysis, connected 
and autonomous vehicles
Sushmita Paul
Assistant Professor
Computational Biology and 
Bioinformatics
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
Department of Chemical Engineering
Department of Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Anand Mishra
Assistant Professor
Computer Vision; Deep Learning; 
Knowledge Graph; Multimodal 
Machine Learning
Deepak Mishra
Assistant Professor
Medical Image Analysis, Machine 
Learning, Resource Constrained AI
Mayank Vatsa
Professor
Computer Vision, Machine Learning 
(deep learning)
Romi Banerjee
Assistant Professor
Affiliation: Center for Brain Sciences & 
Applications
Natural Language Understanding, 
Creativity in Children, Embodied 
Systems
Sumit Kalra
Assistant Professor
Software Architecture and Cloud 
Computing
Saran Aadhar
Assistant Professor
Affiliation: Center for Intelligent Infrastructure
Surface Hydrology; Hydroclimatic extremes; Hydrologic 
modeling in natural and anthropogenic climate; Climate 
change and resilience
Debasis Das
Assistant Professor
Affiliation: Center for Intelligent 
Infrastructure
Networking, IoT and Machine 
Learning
Dip Sankar Banerjee
Associate Professor
High Performance Computing, 
Computer Architecture
Richa Singh
Professor
Machine Learning and Trustable AI
Santanu Chaudhury
Professor
Affiliation: Center for Brain Sciences & 
Applications
Department of Chemical Engineering
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Ajay Agarwal
Professor
Microelectronics; Micro- Nano-
technologies; Sensors; Micro-fluidics, 
Point-of-Care devices and Early 
diagnostics
Anil Kumar Tiwari
Associate Professor
Affiliation: Center for Brain Sciences & 
Applications
Neuroscience, Image and video 
processing, Healthcare devices
Manish Narwaria
Assistant Professor
Multimedia signal processing
Rajendra Nagar
Assistant Professor
Computer Vision, Computer Graphics, 
Digital Geometry Processing
Amit Bhardwaj
Assistant Professor
Affiliation: Center for Brain Sciences & 
Applications
Haptics, Perception, Teleoperation, 
Applications of Machine Learning and 
Augmented and Virtual Reality
Arun Kumar Singh
Associate Professor
Wireless Communications, 
Spread Spectrum Systems, ML for 
communications
Manoj Choudhary
Professor
Communication Systems (Wireless 
- 4G/5G/6G, Modem/WLAN/WPAN/
UWB) and networks; System on Chip; 
Embedded Systems & Software; 
Image Sensors and signal processing; 
Internet of Things and smart homes; 
AI, ML and computer vision
Sandeep Kumar Yadav
Associate Professor
Signal Processing, Condition 
Monitoring, Image Processing, 
Data Compression, Blind Source 
Separation, Artificial Neural Network
Department of Electrical Engineering
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Dilpreet Kaur
Assistant Professor
Group Theory
Anand Krishnan Plappally
Assistant Professor
Wetlands, geospatial applications, 
agriculture
Reetanjali Moharana
Assistant Professor
Astroparticle Physics, High energy 
Cosmic rays, Gamma rays and 
Neutrinos
Nil Kamal Hazra
Assistant Professor
Reliability, Time series Analysis
Vivek Vijay
Assistant Professor
Financial Risk Analysis, Categorical 
Data Analysis, Regression
Gaurav Bhatnagar
Associate Professor
Multimedia Security, Image 
Fusion, Floor Plan Analysis, Image 
Segmentation, Image Completion
Harshal Akolekar
Assistant Professor
Aerodynamics; Computational 
fluid dynamics; Machine learning; 
Submarine hydrodynamics; 
Turbulence Modeling
V. Narayanan
Assistant Professor
Experimental Quantum Optics, Optical 
Coherence Tomography (OCT) and 
Quantum Imaging
Puneet Sharma
Associate Professor
Computational Neuroscience
V.V.M.S. Chandramouli
Assistant Professor
Smooth Dynamical Systems, 
Renormalization of Unimodal maps 
and Henon-like maps
Department of Mathematics
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Department of Physics
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Ankita Sharma
Associate Professor
Affiliation: Center for Brain Science 
and Applications
Advance form of human behavior 
as an integration for cognition, 
emotional, social, moral and self 
aspects
Sankalp Pratap
Associate Professor
Practices that aid entrepreneurs and 
their contexts
Chhanda Chakraborti
Adjunct Professor
Bioethics, Public Health Ethics, Logic, 
Philosophy of Mind.
Suman Dhaka
Assistant Professor
Affiliation: Center for Brain Science 
and Applications
Cognitive Neuroscience
Ruhi Sonal
Assistant Professor
Affiliation: Center for Mathematical 
and Computational Economics
Coordinator: Center for Mathematical 
and Computational Economics
Decision Theory, Game Theory, 
Economics of Networks
Krishna Kumar Balaraman
Associate Professor
Foresight, Microfoundations of 
Strategic Capability Building
Saptarshi Mukherjee
Adjunct Professor
Affiliation: Center for Mathematical 
and Computational Economics
Mechanism Design, Social Choice, 
Game Theory, Bounded Rationality
Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
School of Management and Entrepreneurship
School of Management and Entrepreneurship
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Vinay Kulkarni
Adjunct Professor of Practice
Distinguished Chief Scientist, 
Software Systems & Services, CS 
Research
Tapan K. Gandhi
Adjunct Professor
Department: Electrical Engineering, 
IIT Delhi
Affiliation: Center for Brain Science 
and Applications
Computational Neuroscience, Human-
Machine Interaction, Medical Signal/
Image Processing, ML/AI, AR/VR/MR, 
Assistive Technology
Description of Centers of Excellence
1. Center for Brain Sciences & Applications
Center for Brain Science and Applications (CBSA) 
envisages bringing together practitioners of diverse 
disciplines 
to 
work 
on 
understanding 
the 
brain, 
developing 
technologies to study the brain, developing brain 
inspired AI and other technologies. This interdisciplinary 
center brings together biologists, physicists, engineers, 
mathematicians, psychologists and all those interested 
in the brain. The neurobiologists interrogate the brain at 
the microscale (determining connectivity and functioning 
of individual neurons), mesoscale (studying network of 
groups of neurons such as a single sensory system or 
multiple sensory systems) and mega scale (studying the 
entire brain and interactions of brain in the context of 
inter-individual interactions). Other groups develop tools
for data analysis and visualization, and AI and hardware 
inspired from the knowledge of the brain function. Use 
of knowledge from research on sensation, perception, 
intelligence, cognition and consciousness would lead 
to development of brain inspired machines, intelligent 
technology for prediction and diagnosis of diseases, 
brain-computer interface devices, intelligent prosthetics 
to name a few. One of the major goals of this Center is to 
work at the interface of neuroscience and AI dedicated to 
the study of human cognition and develop brain inspired 
algorithms to design cognitive machines. An important 
component of the Center’s activities is teaching and 
training at the graduate and undergraduate levels.
Faculty: Dr. Amit Bhardwaj, Dr. Anil Kumar Tiwari, Dr. Ankita Sharma, Dr. Dipanjan Roy, Prof. Neeraj Jain 
(Coordinator), Dr. Romi Banerjee, Prof Santanu Chaudhury, Dr. Shilpa Dang, Dr. Suman Dhaka, Adjunct faculty: Prof 
Tapan Gandhi
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

2 Center for Mathematical and Computational Economics
The internet revolution has seen a massive change 
in the way commerce is done. The very nature of a 
marketplace has undergone massive changes with the 
advent of online markets for almost every good and 
service we need. Online marketplaces are powered by 
massive computer algorithms which govern what we 
see and choose and are designed to help consumers 
make better choices and help sellers generate higher 
revenue. Economics is at the heart of all this.
The Center for Mathematical and Computational 
Economics (CMCE) was established in 2020 as 
a specialized center dedicated to improving our 
understanding of the evolving nature of economics 
in the internet era. CMCE is an interdisciplinary unit 
that combines knowledge across the disciplines of 
computer science, engineering, mathematics, and 
statistics. It is a specialized unit for the research and 
teaching of economic theory combined with the use of 
modern tools of artificial intelligence and specializes in
the following areas:
•
Decision theory;
•
Experimental economics;
•
Social and Economic Networks;
•
Mechanism design;
•
Social choice;
•
Auction theory;
•
Optimization theory;
•
AI, reinforcement learning and mechanism design;
•
Computational social choice;
•
Algorithmic game theory;
•
Big data and consumer choice
Faculty: Dr. Ruhi Sonal (Coordinator), Dr. Abhinaba Lahiri, Dr. Dweepobotee Brahma, Dr. Ganesh Manjhi, Dr. Srivatsa 
Srinivas; Adjunct faculty: Dr. Saptarshi Mukherjee
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

3 Center for Intelligent Infrastructure
The Center for Intelligent Infrastructure (CII) is a 
transdisciplinary research center to foster research in 
smart, sustainable, and resilient infrastructure. CII is one 
of the lofty visions of IITJ to nurture a vibrant ecosystem 
equipped with a highly qualified workforce, novel 
ideas, and innovative research. The prime focus of the 
center is to integrate artificial intelligence and machine 
learning (AI & ML), big data analytics, automation, and 
finance into the life-cycle assessment, performance 
prediction, risk analysis, and resilience of infrastructure 
systems. In particular, the following is a list of some of
the research areas, with major thrust on AI & ML based 
research.
•
Climate Change Sustainability and Resilience
•
Cyber-physical systems
•
Digital Twins
•
Intelligent Transport Systems
•
Smart Cities
•
Smart Infrastructure Finance
Faculty: Dr. Ranju Mohan, Dr. Ravi Prakash (Coordinator), Dr. Saran Aadhar, Dr Debasis Das
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

4 Center of Excellence in Integrative Precision Health
Precision health cohorts have been set up globally with 
an aim to capture a populations’ and an individual’s 
baseline phenotype as well as response trajectory in 
spatial-temporal dimensions for evolving precise health 
interventions. These basically address predictive, 
preventive, personalized and participatory aspects 
called P4 medicine. We have recently established a 
transdisciplinary Center of excellence for integrative 
precision health wherein we aim to establish a Data 
Science driven framework for population and individual 
risk stratification and early actionable precision health 
interventions. The broad objectives include the 
following
•
Phenomics based non-invasive risk stratification
•
Development of an objective framework for 
Integrative medicine
•
Management of rare disease and common disease
•
Integration of principles and practice of Ayurveda 
with other knowledge systems
•
Precision health in arid regions
Under this program we also have established an 
AYURTECH CoE supported by the Ministry of AYUSH. 
This would be the first of it’s kind unique initiative 
combining Electronics, Digital health and AI for realizing 
“Evidence based Ayurveda” solutions 
Academic Programs
•
Ph.D. program in AI & Data Sciences
•
M.Tech. Executive in Data Computational Sciences 
for Working Professionals
•
M.Tech. Executive in AR-VR for Working 
Professionals
•
Minor/Specialization program for B.Tech. students in 
Science of Intelligence (offered by CBSA)
Faculty: Dr. Mitali Mukerji (Coordinator)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

•
Minor/Specialization program for B.Tech. students 
in Mathematical and Computational Economics 
(offered by CMCE)
•
Specialization track in Mathematical and 
Computational Economics for M.Sc. Computational 
Social Science (offered by School of Liberal Arts)
•
Summer Internship Program
Significant Research Achievements
1. Brain oscillations during Brain Aging as predictive marker of behavior and their impact on 
short-term working memory processing (Developing signal processing methods to decode 
periodic and aperiodic components of brain signals)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

3. Biophysical mechanism underlying compensatory preservation of neural synchrony over 
the adult lifespan
2. Ongoing Oscillatory Large-scale Brain Network Dynamics links Distinct Functional Aspects 
of Cognition across adult lifespan
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

4 Advance BIM models (BIM-Fire safety integration); Automation in BIM; LCA
5 Dynamic Traffic Assignment (DTA) Framework for Indian transportation network
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Ankita Sharma 1. Early career scholar award in International Wisdom Summit (Jointly supported by Wisdom
and Culture Lab-University of Toronto, Center for Practical Wisdom-University of Chicago,
and Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada). (2021)
2. Moonshot project Award 2021, IIT Jodhpur on the idea, ‘ExPoPsych: Experiencing Positivity
at the face of Psychological Vulnerability.’ (2021)
3. Invited to the podcast by Prof. Michel Ferrari, Director of Wisdom and Identity Lab, Ontario
Institute for Studies in Education, University of Toronto. The podcast “Essence of Wisdom’
is out with the interview with Ankita Sharma on Leadership and Virtue https://open.spotify.
com/episode/0kXo56qfaPC7DWQ1Z5NHUF, https://linktr.ee/EssenceOfWisdom
Debasis Das 1. IEEE Senior Member Award-2021
2. IEEE Vehicular Technology Society (VTS) Senior Member Award-2021
3. BRICS Young Scientist Award-2022
4. International Travel Support (ITS) Award, 2022
5. International Mobility Research Grant Award-2021
Dipanjan Roy 1. Journal Editorship, joined the editorial board of Frontiers in Cognition: learning and
Cognitive development and presently serving as Associate Editor.
2. Review Editor: Frontiers in Brain Imaging methods and Frontiers in Psychology
3. Associate Editor: Frontiers in Neurology: Stroke and Frontiers in Computational
Neuroscience
Dweepobotee
Brahma 1. Received the Google India Research Award 2021 to study child health inequities in India
using Machine Learning
Ganesh Manjhi 1. Invited lecture for undergrad students on “Fiscal Policy, Budget, and Political Budget
cycles”, Hansraj College, University of Delhi.
2. Invited lecture and seminar at Dr. Ram Dayal Munda Tribal Welfare Research institute on
‘Tribal Philosophy (Epistemology and Metaphysics)’, Jharkhand.
Neeraj Jain Haryana Vigyan Ratna Award
P Ravi Prakash Joined the editorial board of Frontiers of Built Environment- Fire resistant engineering
Ranju Mohan Start-up Research Grant (SRG) from Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), 2021
Romi Banerjee 1. Diverse Intelligence Summer Institute (A Templeton World Charity Foundation initiative in
Diverse Intelligences) Fellowship - 2021
2. Moonshot Idea Award, IIT Jodhpur 2021 on the idea, ‘BRBL: Conversations, Intelligence,
Empowerment.’ (2021)
Suman Dhaka 1. Moonshot project Award 2022, IIT Jodhpur on the idea “Sleep Switch: Personalized
Optimization of Sleep”
2. Moonshot project Award 2022, IIT Jodhpur on the idea “CogTree or WiseTree: Tree that
knows you”
Faculty Laurels
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sweta Kaman
(IDRP19CG202) Diverse Intelligence Summer Institute (A Templeton World Charity Foundation initiative in
Diverse Intelligences) Fellowship - 2021
Student Laurels
Laboratories and Equipment
1. Cognitive Engineering Research 
Lab (managed by CBSA)
This lab is equipped with 128 channel high 
density EEG recording system, Tobii pro 
fusion Eye-tracker system with high sampling 
frequency, Neurostimulation devices including 
neurostym tES system with various low 
intensity electrical stimulation protocols 
tDCS, tACS & tRNS and a variety of stimulus 
presentation software for stimulus design 
for behavioral recordings and assessment. 
The facility is currently being used to 
study naturalistic image and audio-visual 
stimulus processing, Visual and Auditory 
perception and steady state processing, 
working and episodic memory processing 
and developmental changes associated with 
speech, language, perceptual processing in 
children, adolescents, adults of different age 
groups to record and analyze brain signals 
and study systematically behavior coupling 
and developmental alterations in cognitive 
processes.
2. Ayurtech Center
A ~ 3760 sqft space has been built for housing the Ayurtech facility. This facility has provisions for 
molecular biology, cell biology and cell culture, phenotyping and consultation areas, sensor fabrication and 
characterization labs and meeting/ training and office spaces.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S. No. Title Sponsoring
Authority Type Organizers Dates
1. Dr. Dipanjan Roy
Lifespan associated change
in coherent communication
and cognitive processing Ashoka University Invited talk and
seminar Ashoka University 03/12/2021
2. Dr. Dipanjan Roy
Lifespan associated
changes in brain rhythms
and cognitive flexibility IIT Delhi Invited talk
and seminar
in Cognitive
Science
Colloquium
series IIT Delhi 29/10/2021
3. Dr. Romi Banerjee
Digital Curator (2020 -
present) SFNC Digital
curation committee Society
membership Society for
Neuroscience of
Creativity NA
4. Dr. Romi Banerjee
6th annual meeting of SFNC Program committee
member Society Annual
Meeting Society for
Neuroscience of
Creativity March 12-
13th 2022
5. Dr. Ankita Sharma
Delivered lecture on
‘Monitoring mental health of
students. Atal FDP
organized by
MBM Engineering
College, Jodhpur Resource
person MBM Engineering
College, Jodhpur 09/07/2021
6. Dr. Ankita Sharma
Delivered outreach lecture
on ‘Digital Wellbeing of
Elderly’. Organized by
Senior Citizens
Division Resource
person Senior Citizens
Division, National
Institute of Social
Defence Ministry of
Social Justice and
Empowerment 20/08/2021
7. Dr. Ankita Sharma
Delivered lecture on
‘Monitoring mental health
and physical health for all. AICTE Atal FDP Resource
person PDPM IIIT Design
and Manufacturing,
Jabalpur 20/08/2021
8. Dr. Ankita Sharma
Lecture on Qualitative and
Quantitative Research
Methodology AMPGC Resource
person Banaras Hindu
University 10/03/2022
9. Dr. Ankita Sharma
Lecture on Autodidactic
or
Vicarious learning about
Mental Health RAJIV GANDHI
NATIONAL
INSTITUTE
OF YOUTH
DEVELOPMENT Resource
person Jai Narain Vyas
University under the
Flagship of RAJIV
GANDHI NATIONAL
INSTITUTE OF YOUTH
DEVELOPMENT 13/03/2022
Outreach Activities
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S. No. Title Sponsoring
Authority Type Organizers Dates
10. Expert talk on “Digitalized
Fire Safety Assessment in
Structural Systems” during
10 days FDP on Facilitating
Digital Transformation in
Design, Construction and
Management Processes of
Civil Engineering” at NIT
Warangal NIT Warangal Invited talk and
seminar NIT Warangal 25/2/2022
11. Lecture delivered by Dr
Prof Mitali Mukerji, BSBE
IIT Jodhpur on Ayurtech
for precision medicine:
introduction to basic
framework SRA University Invited talk lecture series on
Technology based
evidence for Ayurveda
solutions in precision
health https:// www.
youtube. com/
watch?v=lmnj 62tS5Fo 15th
January
2022
12. Lecture delivered by Prof
Mitali Mukerji “Ayurgenomics
Framework for Integrative
and Precision Medicine:
Insights and Application in
Covid Times” Jointly by NIIRNCD,
Jodhpur & Mohanlal
Sukhadia University,
Udaipur Amrit Mahotsav
Science Showcase:
Roadmap to 2047 Feb 24th
2022
13. Dr. Pankaj Yadav
coordinated ATAL
sponsored one week
workshop on multi-omics
Data Science AICTE FDP IITJ Dec 20 –
24, 2021
14. Dr. Ruhi Sonal
Invited seminar:
Sequential entry and perfect
equilibrium Delhi School of
Economics Invited seminar Delhi School of
Economics January 13,
2022
15. Dr. Ruhi Sonal
Invited seminar:
Sequential entry and perfect
equilibrium Shiv Nadar
University Invited seminar Shiv Nadar University September
24, 2021
16. Dr. Ruhi Sonal
Decision theory Research Cell,
Delhi School of
Economics Invited seminar Research Cell, Delhi
School of Economics February
26, 2022
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Dr. Dipanjan Roy explaining to students about the human brain on IITJ Open House Day.
Thar Talk Series: AI and Beyond, in collaboration with 
Jodhpur City Knowledge and Innovation Foundation
Objectives and Scope: This webinar series aims to 
organize webinars on the role of Artificial Intelligence 
and Data Science techniques in solving the current 
problems and shaping the future technological 
landscape of various fields of science, engineering, 
and public health. The Thar Talk Series focuses on 
multidisciplinary emerging themes and fundamental 
issues and explores pathbreaking possibilities in 
various disciplines of Engineering and Sciences.
Under the Thar Talk series, we invite distinguished 
speakers around the world working in the areas of but 
not limited to: Brain Science, Intelligent Infrastructure,
Mathematical and Computational Economics, Smart 
Business Analytics, Autonomous Robot Systems, 
Computer Vision, AI Hardware, Chemical Process 
Modeling, Computational Material Science, AI for Social 
Good, AI and Emotion, etc.
We have organized the below twelve talks under the 
Thar talk series which were open to the national and 
international audiences. These talks available publicly 
at the YouTube channel of the AIDE School:
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

# Theme Date Title Speaker
1 Brain Science 12/05/21 Recent Progress Toward a
High-Performance Neural
Prosthetic Prof. Andrew B. Schwartz Distinguished
Professor & Endowed Chair in Systems
Neuroscience, University of Pittsburgh
2 Brain Science 26/05/21 A View of the Future for
BMI Basic Research and
Clinical Applications Prof. Miguel Nicolelis, Duke School of
Medicine Professor in Neuroscience Depts.
of Neurobiology, Neurology, Biomedical
Engineering, and Psychology and Neuroscience
3 Brain Science 09/06/21 From Brain to Robot:
Enabling Our Brain to
Adopt a Robotic Body Prof. Gordon Cheng, Chair Professor of Cognitive
Systems, Institute for Cognitive Systems, Dept. of
Electrical and Computer Engineering, Technical
University of Munich, https://www.ei.tum.de/ics/
people/cheng/
4 Intelligent
Infrastructure 16/06/21 Physiological and
Cognitive Aspects of Real-
Time Information Systems
and Their Impacts on
Driver Performance and
Decision-Making Prof. Srinivas Peeta, Frederick R. Dickerson Chair
and Professor, School of Civil and Environmental
Engineering, H. Milton Stewart School of
Industrial and Systems Engineering, Georgia
Institute of Technology, Principal Research
Faculty, Georgia Tech Research Institute, https://
sites.gatech.edu/peeta/
5 Intelligent
Infrastructure 23/06/21 AI Innovations in Smart
Transportation for
Sustainable and Inclusive
Cities Prof. Satish Ukkusuri, Professor, Transportation
and Infrastructure Systems Engineering Group
Lyles School of Civil Engineering Purdue
University, http://www.satishukkusuri.com/
6 Mathematical
and
Computational
Economics 14/07/21 Implementation in
Undominated Strategies
with Applications to
Auction Design, Public
Good Provision and
Matching Prof. Nozomu Muto, Professor, Department
of Economics, Yokohama National University,
Japan, https://sites.google.com/site/
nozomumuto/
7 Digital Heritage 21/07/21 Computational Museology Prof. Sarah Kenderdine, Lead: Laboratory for
Experimental Museology (eM+), Director & lead
curator: EPFL Pavilions (formerly ArtLab), EPFL,
Switzerland https://sarahkenderdine.info/
8 Chemical
Process
Modeling 11/08/21 Performance-oriented
Model Learning via
Constrained Bayesian
Optimization Prof. Ali Mesbah, Department of Chemical
and Biomolecular Engineering, University of
California Berkeley
9 DNA Modeling 25/08/21 DNA Data Storage Dr. Emily Leproust, CEO AND CO-FOUNDER OF
TWIST
10 Intelligent
Infrastructure 08/09/21 Hiding in Plain Sight: The
Role of Machine Learning
in Modernizing Civil
Engineering Dr. M. Z. Naser, Assistant Professor, Glenn
Department of Civil Engineering and AI Research
Institute for Science and Engineering (AIRISE),
Clemson University, Clemson, SC, USA
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

# Theme Date Title Speaker
11 Smart Health 10/11/2021 Soft Electronic and
Microfluidic Systems for
the Skin Prof. John A. Rogers Simpson/Querrey
Professor, Northwestern University http://
rogersgroup.northwestern.edu/
12 Brain Science 08/12/2021 Carving Data at its
Joint-ness: Multimodal
Data-Driven Fusion of
Neuroimaging Data Prof. Vince D. Calhoun Founding Director &
Distinguished University Professor, Center for
Translational Research in Neuroimaging and
Data Science
S. No. Title Type Organizers Dates
1. CMCE
Seminar by Dr. Souvik Banerjee, IIT Bombay - “Latent Factor
Models for Causal Inference with and without Instrumental
Variable” Seminar CMCE 25-03-2022
2. CMCE
Online workshop “Techniques for Strategy, Analysis and
Decision Making” Workshop CMCE 25-09-2021 to
26-09-2021
3. CMCE online seminar series
Dr. Pawan Gopalakrishnan, RBI - “Covid-19 Induced Lockdown
and Economic Activity: Evidence from Zoning Restrictions in
India” Seminar CMCE 06-01-2022
4. CMCE online seminar series
Dr. Noirrit Kiran Chandra, The University of Texas at Austin
- “Bayesian Scalable Precision Factor Analysis for Massive
Sparse Gaussian Graphical Models” Seminar CMCE 13-01-2022
5. CMCE online seminar series
Dr. Aditya Aradhye, Czech Technical University - “Computing
Stackelberg Strategies with Memory in Sequential Games” Seminar CMCE 03-02-2022
6. CMCE online seminar series
Dr. Nandana Sengupta, IIT Delhi - “Simple Surveys: Response
Retrieval Inspired by Recommendation Systems” Seminar CMCE 24-03-2022
CMCE Seminar Series:
Journal Publications
1.	
Kaman, S., Sharma, A., & Banerjee, R. (2022). 
Associativity between COVID-19 Pandemic and 
Serious Mental Illness: Rapid Systematic Review 
within Salutogenesis Model for Public Health 
Management. Current Psychiatric Research and 
Review, vol. 18, 2022. https://dx.doi.org/10.2174/266
6082218666220823153739
2. Sharma, A. & Sharma, A. (2021). What doesn’t break 
you makes you stronger: An experimental validation 
of personal wisdom development through regret 
handling and personality dispositions. Journal of 
Higher Education Theory and Practice, 21(8), 99-
114. (Scopus) DOI: https://doi.org/10.33423/jhetp.
v21i8.4508
Publications
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

3. Dweepobotee Brahma - “Early Warning Signs: 
Targeting Neonatal and Infant Mortality using 
Machine Learning” with Debasri Mukherjee, Applied 
Economics, 2022, Vol 54 (1). doi: https://doi.org/10.10
80/00036846.2021.1958141
4. Ruhi Sonal - “Frame-based stochastic Choice rule” 
with Bhattacharya M. and Mukherjee S, Journal of 
Mathematical Economics 2021, Vol. 97, 102553. doi: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmateco.2021.102553
5. Vyas, J., Das, D., & Chaudhury, S., DriveBFR: 
Driver Behavior and Fuel Efficiency-Based 
Recommendation System, IEEE Transactions 
on Computational Social Systems, 1-10, 2021. 
doi:10.1109/TCSS.2021.3112076
6. Aggarwal, M., Attitude-based entropy function 
and applications in decision-making, Engineering 
Applications of Artificial Intelligence, Vol.104, 2021. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2021.104290
7.	
Madhumita and Sushmita Paul, Autoencoder 
Assisted Cancer Subtyping by Integrating Multi-
omics Data, 9th International Conference on Pattern 
Recognition and Machine Intelligence (PReMI2021), 
Kolkata, (Virtual Mode) India, December 2021.
8. Madhumita, Archit Dwivedi, and Sushmita Paul, 
Recursive Multi-view Integration for Subtypes 
Identification of Cervical Cancer, 15th IEEE 
International Conference on Bioinformatics and 
Biomedicine (BIBM2021), USA (Virtual Mode), 
December 2021, pp. 706-709. https://doi.
org/10.1109/BIBM52615.2021.9669481
9. Leslee Lazar, Prem Chand, Radhika Rajan, Hisham 
Mohammed and Neeraj Jain, Somatosensory 
Cortex of Macaque Monkeys is Designed for 
Opposable Thumb. Cerebral Cortex: bhac061, 2022 
https://doi.org/10.1093/cercor/bhac061
1.	
Roy, Dipanjan. “Computational modelling of 
individualized EI balance post lesion using 
noninvasive Brain-State-Dependent electrical 
(BSDE) stimulation therapy.” Brain Stimulation: 
Basic, Translational, and Clinical Research in 
Neuromodulation 14, no. 6 (2021): 1714. Elsevier. 2021
2. Kumari, M., & Sharma, A., Neurofeedback Training 
for Social Cognition Deficit: A neuroimaging 
approach. Neurofeedback and Neuromodulation 
techniques and applications (Second Edition), R., 
Coben (Ed.). Elsevier. 2022
Conference attended/presented by Ph.D. 
student: Sweta Kaman
1.	
Kaman, S., and Sharma, A., (2022). Neural 
Correlates of Non-Verbal Response and Wisdom. 
Psychological Science and Wellbeing Conference 
(4-5 March 2022). James Cook University 
Singapore. (On-site)
2. BIRAX UK-Israel Healthy Ageing Conference (Nov 
3-4, 2022). Attended a two-day cross-disciplinary 
brainstorming conference held at the Museum of 
Natural History at Tel Aviv University (Online)
3. Kaman, S. (2021). Food categorization learning 
strategies of babies in a social context at the ‘Food, 
memory and machines workshop,’ organized by 
Indian Network for Memory Studies in association 
with the Center for Memory Studies and Office of 
Global Engagement IIT Madras. (Online).
Conference presentation by B.Tech student 
from Design proposal
1.	
Bhandari, K.S., Sharma, A., Kalra, S., Nirmal, A., 
Soumik, Soni, R., and Kaur, B. (2022). Feasibility and 
Usability of Experience sampling method and typing 
characteristics for smartphone-based emotion 
detection. Psychological Science and Wellbeing 
Conference (4-5 March 2022). James Cook 
University Singapore.
2. Rawat, P., Kalra, S., Sriram, Dutta, J., Singh, P., Kumar, 
P., and Sharma, A., (2022). Understanding Typing 
error, delayed error identification, and fatigue in 
online interaction. Psychological Science and 
Wellbeing Conference (4-5 March 2022). James 
Cook University Singapore.
3. Nirmal, A., Kalra, S., Sharma, A., Soumik, Soni, R., 
Kaur, B., Pandey S., and Bhandari, K.S., (2022). Deep 
Mood: Identification of mood state with keystrokes 
on the smartphone. Psychological Science and 
Wellbeing Conference (4-5 March 2022). James 
Cook University Singapore.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S. No. Title Cost in
Lakh Start Date End Date Role as Agency
1. Comparative Mapping of Common
Mental Disorders (CMD) over
lifespan 470 Lakhs 22/12/2019 23/12/2024 Co-PI:
Dipanjan
Roy Department of
Biotechnology
(DBT)
Government of
India
2. Identification and classification
of Hub genes downstream to
let-7 using network approach in
C-elegans neuron regeneration 350 Lakhs 01/08/2022 01/08/2027 Co-PI:
Dipanjan
Roy Department of
Biotechnology
Senior Welcome
Trust Fellowship
3 Center of Excellence in
“AYURTECH” for integrative
precision health and medicine 10 Crore 25th Feb
2022 24th Feb
2025 PI- Mitali
Mukerji,
Ajay
Aggarwal Ministry of
AYUSH
4 Center for Advanced Security
Technology Development on
Cyber Physical Systems 5.91 Crore March
2022 March
2025 PI Somitra
Sanadhya MEITY
5 Quantum Cryptanalysis 6.6 Lakhs March
2020 March
2023 PI Somitra
Sanadhya SERB
6 Quantum security of Symmetric
Cryptographic constructions 26.40
Lakhs March
2022 Sept 2023 PI Somitra
Sanadhya DRDO
S. No. Title Cost in
Lakh Start Date End Date Role as Agency
1. Social Isolation and Cognition:
Interventions to reduce social
isolation and loneliness amongst
the Elderly 8 Lakhs August
2019 October
2021 PI: Suman
Dhaka IMPRESS,
ICSSRP
2. EEG Neurofeedback Training for
optimal functioning 10 Lakhs 2017 2021 PI: Ankita
Sharma IITJ Seed Grant
3. Wisdom as Cognitive and
Motivational – Emotional Heuristic
in Ecologically Rational Decision
Making 22 Lakhs 2016 2021 PI: Ankita
Sharma DST-CSRI
CMCE Seminar Series:
2 Completed Projects
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

School of Management & 
Entrepreneurship (SME)
The School of Management & Entrepreneurship (SME) is 
a forward-looking bold experiment to create and deliver 
a novel value proposition in the management and 
entrepreneurship education sector in India. Underlying 
this experiment is the stark realization that on account 
of fast-paced technological changes, the era of stable 
paradigms in the industry which could be exploited 
through traditional business models, has come to an end. 
The future will belong to those who are comfortable with
technologically-dynamic business models, derived from 
continual expression of entrepreneurial energy exhibited 
by organizational members. To this end, SME has created 
a program which integrates technology, management 
and entrepreneurship through an institutional framework 
which 
leverages 
various 
engineering 
disciplines, 
interdisciplinary programs, its own innovation and 
incubation centre, humanities department apart from 
management faculties.
Values at SME
An Academic Retreat of SME was held 
On 6th May, 2022 (Friday) from 10:00 
AM to 6:00 PM through physical mode:
1.	

To discuss the value system for the 
growth of SME,
2. 
To discuss the action pointers for 
various programs and activities, and
3. 
To decide the point persons for 
the smooth functioning of various 
programs and activities.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

The following values were identified by the team:
•
In SME we are humble and considerate in our own actions and communication.
•
SME lives by actions guided by Honesty, Openness, Transparency, Concern, Interaction and Approachability.
•
SME is Reliable and Respectful as a team with Rebounding capability.
•
SME practices the change we wish to see in the world.
•
All of us at SME are responsible towards the institute, student, family, and self.
•

SME is a thought leader with its research focus valuing creativity and rigor in order to produce excellent 
researchers.
•

At SME, we love our Jobs, contribute and add value to one another, and empower each other, and learn from 
our failures.
•
At SME, we are respectful and mindful in our communication.
•
SME practices collective responsibility and everyone-is-a-leader spirit in making SME great.
•
Key Highlights
•

With concentrated effort from the Admissions team, 1425 MBA applications were received, around 1.7 times 
compared to the previous year (820). Finally, class of 2022-24 started with 81 students.
Director’s Address as part of MBA induction
•

For the PhD admissions for July 2022, 148 applications were received, of which 89 were shortlisted, and finally 
14 were given offers.
•

The placement season spearheaded by the Corporate Relations and Placements team, resulted in SME 
achieving a 100% placement record, with 21.32 LPA as highest CTC and 1.5 Lacs as the highest stipend with an 
average CTC of 12.64 LPA.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

•

The first year MBA students (2021-23) received the highest stipend of 1.4 Lakhs, an average stipend of 58.7 
Lakhs for their summer internship.
•

Ten students from the MBA 2021-23 batch opted for the dual degree program at partner universities abroad - 6 
at SUNY Albany, 2 at George Washington University, and 2 at Brandeis University.
Farewell to the first batch (2020-22) of MBA
Faculty Members
Krishna Kumar Balaraman
PhD (IIT Madras)
Associate Professor
Strategy & Public Policy
Devi Prasad Dash
PhD (IIT Ropar)
Assistant Professor
Economics
Venkat Ram Reddy Ganuthula
PhD (IIT Madras)
Assistant Professor
Human Capital & Organizational 
Dynamics
Following are the faculty members associated with the School
Sinjana Yerasani
PhD (IIT Kharagpur)
Assistant Professor
Decision Sciences & Operation
Anuj Pal Kapoor
PhD (FMS, University of Delhi)
Assistant Professor
Marketing
Mithu Rani Kuiti
PhD (IIM Calcutta)
Assistant Professor
Decision Sciences & Operations
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Research Group Members Primary Research Topics
Digital Transformation
and Business
Intelligence Amit Singh
Bhargab Chattopadhyaya,
Deepak Saxena,
Monika Tanwar
Tanmoy Kundu AI Ethics, Cyber Physical Systems, Coreset construction,
Digital Transformation, Enterprise Systems (on-premise and
cloud-based), Industry 4.0, Sentiment Analysis, Sequential
analysis, Text Analytics, Digital twin / Control tower
for e-commerce logistics, Blockchain for International
Coldchain Transportation
Economics Devi Prasad Dash Urban Economics, Economics of Crime, Climate Change
Economics
Entrepreneurship Jitesh Mohnot
Nimish Vohra
Sankalp Pratap
Venkatesa Murthy Art entrepreneurship, Corporate Entrepreneurship, Design
thinking, Entrepreneurship ecosystems, Entrepreneurial
failure, Healthcare Entrepreneurship, Indigenous
entrepreneurship, Micro-Small-Medium Scale Enterprises,
New venture creation and associated practices/issues,
Practices in incubation centers, Start-up team dynamic, The
art of Pitching and fundraising
Human Capital
Management Sangeeta Sahney Venkat
Ram Reddy Science and practice of Behavior Change, Managerial
Judgment and Decision Making, human Resource
Management
Marketing Anuj Kapoor
Sangeeta Sahney Multi Sensory Experiences, Design Aesthetics, Neuro-
marketing and Collaborative consumption. Consumer
Behavior, Services Marketing, Internet Marketing, Cross-
cultural Marketing and Rural Marketing, Educational
Leadership, Socio-Technical Design systems and
Organizational Culture.
Venkatesha Murthy
PhD (TISS Mumbai)
Assistant Professor
Innovation & Entrepreneurship
Sangeeta Sahney
PhD (IIT Delhi)
Professor
Marketing, OB & HR
Monika Tanwar
PhD (IIT Delhi)
Assistant Professor
Industry 4.0, Cyber Physical Systems
Jitesh Mohnot
PhD - IIM Trichy
Assistant Professor
Strategy
Sankalp Pratap
PhD (IIM Calcutta)
Associate Professor
Innovation & Entrepreneurship
Deepak Kumar Saxena
PhD (Trinity College Dublin)
Assistant Professor
Management Information Systems
Research Groups
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Research Group Members Primary Research Topics
Operations Amit Singh
Mithu Rani Kuiti
Monika Tanwar
Tanmoy Kundu
Yerasini Sinjana Green supply chain management, Humanitarian Logistics,
Intelligent Logistics, Last-mile Logistics, Multi-modal (Air/
Maritime/Surface) Transportation, Sustainable Supply
Chain Management, Diagnostics, Prognostics and Health
Management, Failure and Reliability Analysis,
Strategy and Public
Policy Jitesh Mohnot
Krishna Kumar Balaraman Business Models, Strategic Alliances,Strategic Decision
Making, Strategic Foresight, Strategizing practices of
indigenous business communities
Academic Programs
PhD Program
The PhD program at SME is rigorous and demanding. It has been designed to produce candidates with skills 
and achievements, enabling them to meaningfully stake their candidature for full-time faculty positions in premier 
management institutes across the country.
The PhD program currently provides an opportunity for focused research in all areas of specialization that the 
school offers. The program emphasizes pursuing research work that connects with the world of practice, with any of 
the national or global programs that speak to contemporary issues in our society and their management, particularly 
those that have an overlay of technology and entrepreneurship.
Minor in Management
The undergraduate students at IITJ are offered minor programs to complement their Majors. The minor program 
must be completed simultaneously with a major degree program.
Students can opt for:
(i) Minor in Management
(ii) Minor in Entrepreneurship
Flagship two year MBA program leading to:
•
Track I – Leading to MBA-Technology Degree
•
Track II – Leading to MBA Degree
•

Track III – Dual Degree (SME, IIT Jodhpur has tie-ups with some of the leading business schools in the world 
and jointly offers dual degree programs. The students would successfully complete their foundational courses in 
the 1st year at SME, IIT Jodhpur, and thereon would study specialized Master’s degree offerings in the 2nd Year 
at one of the partner B-School abroad. The students would go to earn an MBA/MBA-Technology degree from IIT 
Jodhpur and a specialized Master’s degree from the partner B-School.)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

MBA Pathways
Significant Research Achievements
Prof. Sangeeta Sahney became a member of the Editorial Advisory Board Research, Journal of Textile and Apparel, 
Emerald.
Dr. Krishna Kumar Balaraman was invited to be on the Editorial Board of The IUP Journal of Entrepreneurship 
Development.
Dr. Krishna Kumar Balaraman was invited to be part of the editorial review board of IEEE Transactions on 
Engineering Management from 2022 for three years.
Dr. Bhargab Chattopadhyay is the Associate Editor of the Sequential Analysis Journal.
Dr. Anuj Pal Kapoor’s research work featured in the reputed Neuromarketing Science and Business Association 
(NSBA). Venlo, the Netherlands: Neuromarketing Science and Business Association.
Dr. Monika Tanwar acted as a Program Committee Member of IEEE International Conference on Industrial 
Engineering and Engineering Management (IEEM).
Faculty Laurels
Dr. Krishna Kumar Balaraman was nominated for the SMS 2022 Annual Conference Responsible Research Paper 
Prize -Strategic Management Society (SMS) 2022 Conference Paper "Microfoundational Framework of Institutions: 
Knowledge Transfer in Traditional Crafts Industry"
Ideas submissions by Dr. Venkat Ram Reddy (2021), Dr. Deepak Saxena, and Dr. Mithu Rani Kuiti (2022) were 
shortlisted for the next round in the Moonshot competition conducted by IIT Jodhpur.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Anisha Mehta Secured 3rd position in a product management competition ‘Productivitea’ organized by LBSIM,
New Delhi through d2c
Adarsh Totla Case Study Competition ‘Creazione’ by Entrepreneurship Cell of SDA Bocconi Asia Center -
First Runner Up (2021), https://dare2compete.com/competition/creazione-la-conquista-sda-
bocconi-asia-center-mumbai-187704
‘Productivitea’, Product Management Competition by LBSIM - Runner Up (2021),https://
dare2compete.com/creative-cultural-event/productivitea-product-management-competition-lal-
bahadur-shastri-institute-of-management-lbsim-d-199049
‘Mahayodha’ held during Avenues ‘21 - The Annual Business Festival of SJMSOM, IIT Bombay
- National Finalists (2021), https://dare2compete.com/competition/mahayodha-avenues-21-the-
annual-business-festival-of-sjmsom-iit-bombay-shailesh-j-mehta-school-of-management-215918
Please find Certificate and Submission at - https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1Z_
bMBHPxdSzD8spkodKDXM_XENKhx4Z7
Anagha S Ajith HeuRistics 2020 by HR club of BIM Trichy- Team including me reached final round
Trishna 2020(Solo singing competition) by IBS Hyderabad - Finalist
Anupreet Dube CEO,000,000 for a day
Lal Bahadur Shastri Institute of Management (LBSIM), Delhi
- Reached Semifinals
Proicere- Project Management Case Challenge
Avartan 2021
National Institute of Industrial Engineering (NITIE), Mumbai
- Reached Semifinals
Seal The Deal
Avenues ‘21 - The Annual Business Festival of SJMSOM, IIT Bombay
Shailesh J. Mehta School of Management (SJMSOM), Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay
- Reached Semifinals
Arunika Khaitan Corporate Chanakya IIM Rohtak Finalist
Ayush Sharma Competition Name - Product Quest
Organizing Institute Name - IIT Delhi
Position - Finalist (Final Round Results Awaited)
Team Name - Zenith
Ayush Sisodia Winner of IPL Fever Quiz kn D2c.
21st Rank in the Marketer’s Edge quiz organised by Business Hub.
Bhavya Vishishta
Kondamuri SDA Bocconi Asia Center
Deepika Gupta Productivitea - Product Management Competition by LBSIM : finals
Student Laurels
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Harshit Makhijani Competition Name - Product Quest
Organizing Institute Name - IIT Delhi
Position - Finalist (Final Round Results Awaited)
Team Name - Zenith
Competition Name - Strat-Jack
Organizing Institute Name - IIM Ahemdabad
Position - Semi-Finalist
Team Name - Zenith
Himansh Mittal Competition Name - Product Quest
Organizing Institute Name - IIT Delhi
Position - Finalist (Final Round Results Awaited)
Team Name - Zenith
Competition Name - Strat-Jack
Organizing Institute Name - IIM Ahemdabad
Position - Semi-Finalist
Team Name - Zenith
Hitesh Bansal Competition Name - Product Quest
Organizing Institute Name - IIT Delhi
Position - Finalist (Final Round Results Awaited)
Team Name - Zenith
Competition Name - Strat-Jack
Organizing Institute Name - IIM Ahemdabad
Position - Semi-Finalist
Team Name - Zenith
Keshav Giria All India finalist | IMT Ghaziabad, Udaan, the marketing and strategy B-School competition
All India finalist |IIM Kozhikode, Impacto, the social entrepreneurship B-School Competition
Mrunal Shetty Finals - HeuRistics | Bharathidasan Institute of Management (BIM), Trichy | Oct ‘20
Finals - Maçon National Level B-Plan Competition | ICFAI Business School (IBS), Hyderabad) |
Oct ‘20
Finals - Productivitea - Product Management Competition | Lal Bahadur Shastri Institute of
Management (LBSIM), Delhi | Sept ‘21
Prachiti Dad 1st Runner-Up in HRace organized by IIM Indore
Preeti singh Flipkart 5.O organised by D2C ,Reached 2nd round
Team name -Preeti singh (Team leader), Prakash kumar singh,Sakshi sharma
Rishin Dubey ARTHA - NEETI
Riya Bansal Productivitea - Product Management Competition by LBSIM : finals
Ronak Arya Seal the deal
Priocere
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sagnick Panda Brand-O-Mania 2020, National Retail Summit,K J Somaiya Institute of Management (KJ SIM),
Mumbai - Winner
Parivartan, SAMRIDDHI 2020,Goa Institute of Management (GIM), Goa - National Finalist (Top 8)
Saudagar 2020, IIM Udaipur ; Op-Era, NMIMS, Mumbai ; - Pre-Finals
AlphaBeta 2021, IIT Jodhpur - Top 3
i-Mobilothon 2021, Skoda-Volkswagen Group - International Finalist (Student segment).
Sakshi Sharma Equity research challenge,IIM Kashipur
Suchita Goel Secured 3rd position in the ‘’Tax Mafia’’ event Conducted by the finance Club of Amity
University business School. I registered for the Event through the D2C Platform. There were
three rounds in total of this Event.
Made it to the Final Round of the ‘’SAMADHAN 2021’’ Case Study Competition of ‘’Symbiosis
Institute of International Business’’ in which only four teams made it to the final round. There
were three rounds in total of this Event.
Vanshika Bansal Adhishtatha- The Best Manager Competition (Reached final round, 3 rounds in total)
Vanshika Bansal Pro Marketing Competition by Pregrad (2nd Rank)
Corporate Chanakya under Synopia by SSBF (1st Rank)
Vishal Gupta Marketer’s Edge - The Marketing Quiz Competition
Business Hub -> Rank 21 (Ayush Sisodia, Vishal Gupta)
CEO,000,000 for a day
LBSIM, Delhi -> Semifinalist (Anupreet Dubey, Vishal Gupta)
Imperium | The Strategy Case Study Event
Atharv 2021, IIM Indore -> Semifinalist (Anupreet Dubey, Hari pandey, Vishal Gupta)
Yashi Jain second position in HRace- IIM Indore
Laboratories and equipment
SME established a scholar hub for its PhD students, equipped with a state-of-the-art AV facility, and a working space 
for 34 students.
SME Scholar Hub
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Outreach activities
As part of its admissions campaign, SME conducted a series of online masterclasses to raise awareness on the role 
of technology in management and the management of technology. More than 15 masterclasses were conducted 
on topics ranging from Digital Platforms, Digital transformation, Role of Technology in Management, Technology 
foresight, Changing Landscape of E-Commerce and Last-Mile Logistics etc.
As part of the Padharo IIT event, SME organized a number of events that included a demonstration on case-based 
teaching (conducted by Dr Jitesh Mohnot), a workshop on Design Thinking (led by Dr. Nimish Vohra), and poster 
presentation by the scholars and faculty of SME IIT Jodhpur.
Students attending a demonstration on case-based teaching, during Padharo IIT event
1.	

Prof. Sangeeta Sahney served as a Chairperson 
for National seminar, “Impact of Covid-19 on Indian 
Industry and Economy”, organised at Rajiv Gandhi 
University, Rono Hills, Doimukh, Arunachal Pradesh: 
on 18th Nov, 2022 (Online)
2. 
Prof. Sangeeta Sahney served as a Chair, 
“International Society for Data Sciences & 
Innovation – Global (ISDSI-G)”, IIM Nagpur, 27-12-
2021 to 30-12-2021 (Online)
3. 
Prof. Sangeeta Sahney served as a Chair, “Indian 
Academy of Management (INDAM) Conference”, IIM 
Rohtak, 07-01-2022 to 09-01-2022 (Online)
4. 
Prof. Sangeeta Sahney served as Chair, 
“Management Doctoral Colloquium and VGSOM 
research scholars’ day”, VGSOM, IIT Kharagpur, 02-
02-2022 to 03-02-2022 (Online)
5. 
Prof. Sangeeta Sahney served as a resource person 
for “Research Methodology and Data Analysis” - 
AICTE STTP at the Centre for Management Studies, 
16-08-2021 to 21-08-2021, NERIST, Nirjuli NERIST, 
Arunachal Pradesh (Online)
6. 
Prof. Sangeeta Sahney acted as a resource person 
“Sustainable Change Management in Technical 
Institutes for NEP – 2020 Implementation”, ATAL 
FDP at Government Engineering College, 23-
08-2021 to 27-08-2021, Bilaspur, Government 
Engineering College, Bilaspur
7.	

Dr. Krishna Kumar Balraman was an invited Speaker 
at PES University’s Entrepreneurial Symposium - 
Anthah Prerana 2022 - on July 1st, 2022 on the 
theme ‘Discovering New Entrepreneurial Frontiers’.
8. 
Dr. Devi Prasad Dash chaired a session in 
symposium,” Global Symposium on Contemporary 
Issues in Finance and Economics”, 28 Dec -29 Dec, 
2021 at Faculty of Management Studies, Siksha O 
Anusandhan (SOA) University, Bhubaneswar, Odisha 
as well as one of the speakers for the symposium.
9. 
Dr. Devi Prasad Dash delivered a lecture in 
hypothesis testing,” Workshop on Research 
Methodology”, organized by Dept of Economics, 
MANUU, Hyderabad 21-27 March, 2022 (Virtually).
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

10. 
Dr. Deepak Saxena was invited as a speaker on the 
topic of Blockchain during a workshop for NTPC 
executives hosted by IIT Delhi.
11. 
Dr. Amit Singh delivered a guest lecture on “Solid 
Waste Management” at Amity University, Ranchi, 
Jharkhand, India
12.
 
Dr. Amit Singh chaired a session in International 
Conference on Operations Management (ICOM 
2022) organized by The Department of Operations 
and IT, IBS Hyderabad, India
13. 
Dr. Anuj Pal Kapoor curated and launched 
SANDSTONE SUMMIT 2.0 as part of Outreach 
activities. Four Line-ups (HR Shastra, Praesidium, 
Impressario and In-Conversation) were launched, 
with over 30 Senior level Executives Invited on a 
Single Platform.
14. 
Dr. Anuj Pal Kapoor Launched first of its kind (In 
India) candid B School talk show (In-Conversation).
15. 
Dr. Anuj Pal Kapoor acted as faculty in-charge for 
Prometeo 2022 (Technical Fest, IIT Jodhpur) and 
hosted over 36 CXOs as part of corporate outreach.
16. 
Dr. Anuj Pal Kapoor worked as a core team member 
in conducting Padharo IIT, the open house event of 
IIT Jodhpur, which received over 10,000 footfall.
17. 
Dr. Anuj Pal Kapoor acted as Chair, “Management 
Doctoral Colloquium and VGSOM research 
scholars’ day”, VGSOM, IIT Kharagpur, 02-02-2022 
to 03-02-2022.
18. 
Dr. Monika Tanwar was invited as Speaker to the 
Public Systems Planning and Optimization webinar 
at IIT Delhi.
19. 
Dr. Jitesh Mohnot was invited as speaker at IXI 
summit, organized by Uincept, a leading ed-tech 
accelerator.
Faculty Publications
1.	

Ahmed, M., & Pratap, S. (2021). Constraint 
absorption in emerging economies: the role 
of business groups. International Journal of 
Organizational Analysis. 1934-8835.
2. 
Aparna, S.M. and Sahney, S., “A Three-Way 
Interaction Model of Research Output: Investigating 
the Role of Age, Technological Aids and Knowledge 
Sharing”, 11th edition of Conference on Excellence 
in Research and Education (CERE), at the Indian 
Institute of Management Indore, during 18th-20th 
June 2021.
3. 
Aparna, S.M. and Sahney, S.,” Organizational 
Learning and Resilience: The Role of Creative 
Problem-Solving Capacity and Knowledge 
Leakage”, IDSI-Global International Conference on 
Leading Business in a FLUID World, IIM Nagpur, 
December 27-30, 2021.
4. 
Arora, S., Sahney, S. and Pradhan, D. (2022), 
“Potential Benefits and Descriptive Norms on 
Webrooming: Applying an Extended Model of Goal-
Directed Behaviour”, International Journal of Retail 
and Distribution Management Vol. 50, No. 3, pp. 
377-397, Emerald.
5. 
Behera, S. R., Mishra, T., Dash, D. P., & Mallick, L. 
(2021). What drives energy consumption in brics 
countries? Evidence from ARDL bounds testing 
approach. The Singapore Economic Review, 
2150053.
6. 
Bhattacharya, S., Murthy, V., & Bhattacharya, S. 
(2022). The social and ethical issues of online 
learning during the pandemic and beyond. Asian 
Journal of Business Ethics, 11:275–29. https://doi.
org/10.1007/s13520-022-00148-z
7.	

Dash, D. P., & Dash, A. K. (2021). Oil Consumption–
pollution Dynamics in the Asia-Pacific Region: The 
Importance of Institutional Factors. Energy Research 
Letters, 3(Early View), 30058.
8. 
Dash, D. P., & Sethi, N. (2022). Pandemics, 
Lockdown And Economic Growth: A Region-
Specific Perspective On Covid-19. Buletin Ekonomi 
Moneter Dan Perbankan, 25, 43-60.
9. 
Dash, D. P., Dash, A. K., & Sethi, N. (2021). 
Understanding the pandenomics: Indian aviation 
industry and its uncertainty absorption. The Indian 
Economic Journal, 69(4), 729-749.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

10. 
Dash, D. P., Dash, A. K., & Sethi, N. (2022). 
Designing hydro-energy led economic growth 
for pollution abatement: evidence from BRICS. 
Environmental Science and Pollution Research, 
29(21), 31252-31269.
11. 
Dhall, M., Tyagi, R., Tungdim, M.G., Nilupher, Gupta, 
U., Devi, K. S., Kaur, J., Kapoor, A.P., Saini, M. P., 
Dhall, Rulu P., Bhasin, P., Kapoor S., “Nutrition, 
Physical Activity and Psychological Status During 
Lockdown Due to Covid 19,” Editor Acta Scientiarum 
Health Sciences, Vol 43.
12. 
Dibenedetto, S., & Saxena, D. (2022). Safety of 
Minors on Social Media Websites: Italian Parent 
Perceptions and Mitigation. International Journal of 
Adult Education and Technology (IJAET), 13(1), 1-14.
13. 
Dutta, V. and Sahney, S. (2022), “Relation 
of Principal Instructional Leadership, School 
Climate, Teacher Job Performance, and 
Student Achievement”, Journal of Educational 
Administration, Vol. 60, No. 2, pp. 148-166, Emerald.
14. 
Gupta R., Kapoor, A.P. and Verma, H., “Politics and 
Neuromarketing: A Case of Bengal Elections (2021) 
in India,” Neuromarketing Science & Business 
Association (NMSBA), Netherlands, 2022.
15. 
Kaplan J. M., and McGourt, J. (Adopter for India: 
Venkatesha Murthy) An Indian adaptation of the 
“Patterns of Entrepreneurship Management, Wiley, 
ISBN: 978-1-119-71363-0 (The Indian adaptation 
version is expected to be out this year 2022).
16. 
Kapoor, A. P. and Chaudhary, K. , “How Green 
is Your Life: Towards a Sustainable Consumption 
Label Index”, TERI Doctoral Consortium, 2021.
17. 
Kapoor, A. P. and M. Vij, “Following you wherever 
you go: Mobile shopping ‘cart-checkout’ 
abandonment,” Journal of Retailing and Consumer 
Services, vol. 61, p. 102553
18. 
Kapoor, A. P. and M. Vij, “Want it, Rent it: Exploring 
Attributes Leading to Conversion for Online 
Furniture Rental Platforms, ”. J. Theor. Appl. Electron. 
Commer. Res. 2021, 16, 188-207
19. 
Kapoor, A.P., and K. Chaudhary, “How Green is 
Your Life: Towards a Sustainable Consumption 
Label Index”, 8th PAN IIM World Management 
Conference, 2021.
20.	
Kuiti, M. R., Hazra, N. K., & Finkelstein, M. (2022). A 
note on the stochastic precedence order between
component redundancy and system redundancy 
for k-out-of-n systems. Communications in Statistics-
Theory and Methods, 51(15), 5003-5011.
21. 
Mohnot, J., Pratap, S., & Saha, B. (2021). 
Governance of Marwari capital: Daily living as 
a decolonial ‘matrix-of-praxis’ intermeshing 
commercial, religious and familial spheres. 
Organization, 28(5), 741-772.
22.	
Murthy, V., & Paul, B. (2022). Entrepreneur and 
employee negotiated labour market flexibility in 
small firms. Labour and Industry, 1-36: https://doi.org
/10.1080/10301763.2022.2098565.
23.	
Murthy, V., Gaur, D. and Bhaduri, K., “Parents, Pupils, 
Pedagogues, and Policies: A Rectangle of School 
Education for Immigrant’s Children”, Systemic 
Practice and Action Research (Published online) 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11213-021-09582-9
24.	
Panda, C., Dash, A. K., & Dash, D. P. (2022). 
Assessment of Risk Factors of Road Traffic 
Accidents: A Panel Model Analysis of Several States 
in India. Vision, 09722629221113251.
25.	
Ray, S.K. and Sahney, S. (2021), “Personal Cultural 
Orientation and Green Purchase Intention: A Case 
of Electric Two-wheelers in India”, Earlycite, Journal 
of Asia Business Studies, Emerald.
26.	
Saha, M.D. and Sahney, S. (2022), Exploring 
the relationships between Socialization Agents, 
Social Media Communication, Online Shopping 
Experience, and Pre-Purchase Search: A Moderated 
Model, Internet Research, Vol. 32, No. 2, pp. 536-
567, Emerald.
27. 
Saxena, D., Brady, M., Lamest, M., & Fellenz, M. 
(2022). Bridging the marketing-finance divide: use 
of customer voice in managerial decision-making. 
Qualitative Market Research: An International 
Journal, 25(3), 361-382. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1108/
QMR-09-2020-0113.
28.	
Sethi, N., & Dash, D. P. (2022). A Perspective on 
Energy Consumption Balance: Quality of Life, 
Governance, and Carbon Emissions in APEC. 
Energy Research Letters, 3(Early View), 32621.
29.	
Singh, A., Jenamani, M., Thakkar, J., & Dwivedi, Y. K. 
(2021). A Text Analytics Framework for Performance 
Assessment and Weakness Detection From 
Online Reviews. Journal of Global Information 
Management (JGIM), 30(8), 1-26.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

30.	
Sreekumar, H., & Pratap, S. (2022). Forging the 
nation state: an advertising history of Tata Steel, 
India. Journal of Historical Research in Marketing, 
(ahead-of-print).
31. 
Tanwar, M., Park, H., & Raghavan, N. (2021). 
Multistate Diagnosis and Prognosis of Lubricating 
Oil Degradation Using Sticky Hierarchical Dirichlet 
Process–Hidden Markov Model Framework. 
Applied Sciences, 11(14),
32.	
Tanwar, M., Raghavan, N., & Khanam, S. (2021, 
December). Condition Based Maintenance Policy 
for Crankcase Lubricating Oil in Diesel Locomotives. 
In 2021 IEEE International Conference on Industrial 
Engineering and Engineering Management (IEEM) 
(pp. 1593-1598). IEEE.
33.	
Tanwar, M.. Effect of Information Sharing on 
Supply Chain Management: A Case Study, Recent 
Advances in Mechanical Engineering Springer, 
2021.
Ongoing Sponsored/
consultancy projects
1.
 
Project Title: Wage discrimination across 
sectors amidst covid-19 pandemics- A gendered
perspective from the selected Northern Indian 
states
PI: Dr. Devi Prasad Dash
Co-PI: Dr. Anuj Kapoor
Sponsoring Agency: NCW, Govt. of India
Amount in Lakhs: INR 18,64,500/-
Start Date and End Date : 2nd Oct 2021 (1 Year)
2. 
Project Title: Does Location Spur Innovation? 
Evidence across the Indian Manufacturing 
Sectors
Co-PI: (Dr. Devi Prasad Dash is the Co-PI).

Funding Agency: Indian Council of Social Science 
Research (ICSSR) for the year 2021-22.
3. 
Project Title: Edible emulgel-based novel, cost-
effective formulation for colon targeted synbiotic-
drug delivery
PI: Dr. Indranil Banerjee, BIG18-BIRAC Project

(Dr. Venkatesha Murthy is a Business consultant in 
the project)
Start year 2022
MBA students at the iconic Ghanta Ghar as part of their 
induction program
Students enjoying cultural performance as part of their 
induction program
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Centres

Santanu Chaudhury, Mentor Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Anand Krishnan Plappally, Head Department of Mechanical Engineering
Krishna Kumar Balaraman School of Management & Entrepreneurship
Pradip K Tewari Department of Chemical Engineering
Arun Kumar Singh Department of Electrical Engineering
Centre for Emerging 
Technologies for Sustainable 
Development
Introduction
Vision
The vision of the Centre for Emerging Technologies for 
Sustainable Development is to be a partner in tapping 
the potential of emerging technologies for creating a 
sustainable and prosperous future for India.
Mission
•

To provide a platform for non-governmental and 
governmental collaborators to work together 
to apply emerging technologies for finding and 
implementing solutions towards achieving SDG 
targets.
•

To help develop scientific temper societies to 
understand technologies that are sustainable or 
technologies that are using sustainability aspects.
•

To innovate solutions towards challenges in location 
specific problems related to energy use, education, 
water management , infrastructure, traditional 
livelihood skills, and health.
•

To perform applied research in areas such 
agriculture, environment, healthcare, waste 
management, pollution, livelihood and rural 
development.
•

To make synergistic policy suggestions to 
handle issues in energy use, agriculture, water 
management, local pollution in a region and its 
influences on health
Area of Specialization
•
Ecosystem Science
•
Sustainable Development
•
Geospatial Science
•

Sustainability Auditing or accounting/ESG 
(Financing/Risk Mitigation)
•
Public Health
•
Human Ecology
•
Sustainable Urban Planning
•

Learning Science and Instructional Design ( 
Education Technology)
•

Natural Resource Management (including Net Zero 
goals)
•
Sustainability of Water
Faculty details
At present, the following faculty members are 
associated with the Centre.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Farhat Naz Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Vivek Vijay Department of Mathematics
KJ George Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Pradeep Kumar Dammala Department of Civil Engineering
Sudipta Das Professor of Practice System Engineer at Tata Consultancy Services
Bhanu Prasad Professor of Practice Coach - Impact Innovation, Entrepreneurship,
Partnerships Digital Impact Square, A TCS Foundation Initiative
Shobhana Singh Department of Mechanical Engineering
Sandeep Kumar Yadav Department of Electrical Engineering
Ambesh Dixit Department of Physics
Gaurav Kumar School of Management & Entrepreneurship
Alok Ranjan Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Prashant Kumar Gupta Department of Chemical Engineering
Ankita Sharma Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Rajlaxmi Chouhan Department of Electrical Engineering
Nitin Bhatia Department of Electrical Engineering
Vikky Anand Department of Chemical Engineering
Suchetana Chakraborty Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Debasis Das Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Mitali Mukerji Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
Ramesh Asapu Department of Chemical Engineering
Deepak Arora Department of Chemical Engineering
Sudipto Mukhopadhyay Department of Mechanical Engineering
Meenu Chhabra Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
ETSD Seminar series 2021-22
Series 5: Sustainability Talk Series – Education 
Vertical (SDG4) (July 2021)
•

Session 1: Prudent Ecosystem Management For 
Sustenance Of Water
•

Session 2: Role of Sustainability in Higher 
Education (July-August 2021)
Series 6: Next Generation EdTech Seminar Series 
(September 2021)
•

Title of the talk: Nurturing disciplinary practices 
through research in the learning sciences
•

Title of the talk: AI-powered Transformation of 
Learning Videos
•

Title of the talk: e-Learning through eVidyaloka 
platform: Learner-centric solutions for last mile 
education
Series 7: Rural Industries (November 2021)
•

Title of Talk: Technology Intervention in Rural 
Industries-by Prof P B S Bhadoria, IIT KGP

3rd International Conference on Rural Technology 
Development and Delivery (RTDD)
IIT Jodhpur hosted the conference on Rural Technology 
Development and Delivery (RTDD) 2022 from 04-
06 March 2022.The conference had three different 
objectives:-
1.	
To bring together faculty and students involved 
working in RuTAG from across India to come and 
share their interventions on the fields.
2. To demonstrate solutions to local region specific, 
ecosystem specific, as well as climate specific 
challenges with use of appropriate technology.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Themes Subtheme
Rural Environment Waste Management
Rural Education Participatory Technologies Outreach
Technology Intervention for Rural
Livelihood Craft,Pottery,including Folklore and Musical instrumentation
Water Management and Agriculture Technology for small farms
Energy or Power interventions for
Rural Areas Farm Power
Digitization for Rural Areas Supply Chain Management for Rural Sector
RTDD 2022 recordings
Faculty Laurels
•

The Jal Jeevan Mission Chair professorship 
application was submitted towards its establishment 
with the main theme Sustainability of Water Sources
to the Jal Shakti Ministry during the last quarter of 
202. We were fortunate to get the Chair in March 
2022. This is a position with a funding of Rs 6 
Crores. Prof Pradip Tewari, Visiting Professor and 
Head, Chemical Engineering was appointed as JJM 
Sustainability Chair Professor at IIT Jodhpur.
3. To also enable awareness of integrated solution 
frameworks for demand driven problems, with 
the emergence of know-how such as modeling, 
automation and digitization coming into 
perspective.

The international conference RTDD 2022 focused 
and deliberated on different domains of rural
technology as enumerated below including 
design and development of on-farm and non-farm 
technologies which have much required scientific 
temperament towards solving site specific demand 
driven rural problems. There were six thematic 
segments to the conference:
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Project title PI/Co-PI Sponsoring
agency Amount in
Lakhs Start
date End date Outcome
Unnat Bharat Abhiyan- Regional
Coordinating Institute Anand K
Plappally IIT Delhi 10 per year April
2019 March We got
2026 extension of 5
years
UF Membrane Assisted Sorption
Based Water Purification Systems
in Rural Village Schools of
Jodhpur District, Rajasthan Anand K
Plappally HEFA 40 Oct.
2021 Oct. completed 10
2024 installation in
rural schools of
Jodhpur District
GIS Survey Of Waqf Properties &
Updation In An Online Waqf Assets
Management System Of India
(WAMSI)---- For State of Rajasthan Anand K
Plappally Central Waqf
Council 110 March
2022 Dec. IITJ gets first
2022 project from
Ministry of
Minorities
Mound Based Sub-Surface
Irrigation, Rajasthan Anand
Plappally RuTAG 0.66 June
2021 January Patent on SSPV
2022 Filed
Outreach activities
HEFA CSR Project
1.	
More than 10 village schools across Jodhpur District 
have sustainable drinking water purification facility
Central Waqf Council Project
2. More than 1000 waqf properties have been 
surveyed under the project GIS Survey Of Waqf 
Properties & Updation In An Online Waqf Assets 
Management System Of India (WAMSI)---- For State 
of Rajasthan
SEE and Hola Projects
3. In collaboration with the Office of Infrastructure 
Engineering, See and Hola projects on sustainability 
of the campus have been carried out. The 
funding for the projects were through the office of 
Infrastructure Engineering.
The major works are
•

A first pond at IIT Jodhpur (behind the temple in 
the forest) has been constructed for enabling forest 
ecosystem to have enough water for its fauna and 
flora
•

A mincing machine was installed for minimizing 
the size of organic waste. It is first of its kind for 
shredding the hardest organic waste found on
campus like tree cuttings, tender coconut etc.
•

A thatched roof pathway has been constructed 
between the two porta cabin buildings of the 
School of Management and Entrepreneurship
•

A app named Prakriti 1.1 for the assessment of fauna 
and flora on campus has been developed under 
this See and Hola projects
•

A waste segregation project within the IIT Jodhpur 
campus has been done with Khamba compostor 
being installed in 4 distinct locations across campus
•

A soil restoration and water conservation project 
by the gardens of Jodhpur Club has been 
accomplished with most of the trees surviving the 
harsh Jodhpur summer.
● A series of two seminars have been conducted 
virtually for the Covid 19 prevention in the adopted 
villages along with more than 40 UBA PIs taking 
part in the event
CETSD Internal Funding
● Project proposal of Algal biomass based carbon 
capture developed by Dr Meenu Chhabbra was 
supported for scale up with a team of faculty 
Prasenjit Sarkar and also Dr Hardik Kothadia joining 
from outside CETSD. Provisional patent for the 
technology was filed.
Sponsored/consultancy projects
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Center for Technology Foresight 
and Policy (CTFP)
The Center for Technology Foresight and Policy (CTFP) 
came into existence on 14 January 2020. The center 
plans to focus on evolving areas of technology - such 
as metaverse, quantum technologies, future of mobility 
– with an aim to provide future roadmaps and policy 
recommendations. The center also plans to promote 
foresight and its methodologies in the public and private 
sectors.
The rich eco-system of IIT Jodhpur is an aid in creating 
technology foresight-based research agendas and view 
of alternate futures. CTFP has been building its resources 
and relationships the past year. It has been allocated its 
office and the setup is in progress. There have been 
initial discussions with organizations such as Technology 
Information, Forecasting and Assessment Council 
(TIFAC), DRDO, and Central Detective Training Institute, 
Jaipur (part of BPR&D). The futuristic focus of CTFP is 
in line with the needs of these organizations and initial 
discussions in May 2022 and July 2022 indicate areas of 
mutual synergy. CTFP also plans in the future to look at 
future roadmaps, applications, and policy implications of 
technologies such as terahertz, photonics, cyberwarfare, 
hypersonic systems.
CTFP anchored Moonshot 2022 that will take place in two 
stages. The results of the first round were announced on 
the Institute Foundation Day (2nd August 2022). There
were 21 submissions of which 6 have been selected to 
proceed to the next stage. The top entries will receive 
the prize money of Rs 5000. These qualified teams are 
eligible to submit a foresight-based technology feasibility 
roadmap of the idea and impact analysis by November 
05, 2022. The top 2 teams will receive a cash prize of Rs 
20000. Results will be announced in a special event on 
the eve of IITJ convocation (2022).
CTFP members visited CDTI, Jaipur on July 27, 2022 
for a roundtable to discuss “Technology Infusion in 
Policing” (Two Photos Attached - Dr. Amandeep Singh 
Kapoor, IPS, Director, CDTI, Jaipur felicitating CTFP 
members). Discussion points that need to take forward 
include an MoU with CDTI/BPR&D, field research on 
impact of community policing, and a joint conference on 
Metaverse. There is also interest in conducting futuristic 
programs involving predictive methods for policing.
CTFP has also launched a call for post-doctoral positions 
at the center. Future plans include recruiting faculty 
with interest in technology and foresight and offering 
academic programs from the center.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Faculty Members
1.	
Krishna Kumar Balaraman, School of Management & Entrepreneurship
2. Ankita Sharma, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
3. Anand Krishnan Plappally, Department of Mechanical Engineering
4. Deepakkumar M. Fulwani, Department of Electrical Engineering
5. Farhat Naz, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
6. Kirankumar R. Hiremath, Department of Mathematics
7.	
Sumit Kalra, Department of Computer Science & Engineering
8. Hardikkumar B. Kothadia, Department of Mechanical Engineering
9. Prasenjeet Tribhuvan, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
10. K. J. George, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Advisor
Dr.Anurag Goel
M.Sc. (Physics): University of Allahabad
Master’s (Management/Public Administration): Carleton University, Ottawa
Ph.D. (Computer Science): University of Waterloo, Canada
IAS (Retd)
Former Secretary, Ministry of Corporate Affairs
Former Member, Competition Commission of India
Following are the faculty members associated with the School
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Section-8 
Companies

Technology Innovation and 
Start-up Center (TISC)
Short introduction and association with IITJ 
(faculty of IITJ)
IITJ-TISC is a Section-8 Company promoted by IITJ, 
having a state-of-the-art Bioincubator funded under 
BioNEST scheme of BIRAC, GoI. TISC is hosted within 
the campus of IITJ and aligned with the Vision of IITJ, 
which is to promote technology thought and action and 
prepare needed technical human resources to meet 
the technology challenges of the nation. The Board 
of Directors of TISC is chaired by the Director IITJ and 
includes members drawn from Industry and Academia.
TISC aims to nucleate new-age ventures around the 
focal theme of AIoT, unique in the country. This next-
generation technology is expected to impact all sectors 
of economy. Deep tech domains of TISC interests 
include: New materials- materials intelligence, Artificial 
Intelligence, Healthcare including Precision Medicine & 
Multi-omics, Cyber-security, Digital economy, Robotics, 
Advanced Communications, Quantum Computing, etc.
TISC provides all the common infrastructure facilities 
during the incubation period like Work stations, lab 
benches, meeting rooms, conference hall, common area, 
cafeteria, and printing facilities. The complete building is 
WiFi-enabled.
Programs/ workshops by domain experts are organized 
for incubatees/ pre incubatees. Regular sessions are 
conducted on IP awareness and capacity building of the 
incubatees/ applicants for filling relevant patents. Various 
awareness programs are continuously conducted in 
association with the Institution Innovation Council and 
Entrepreneurship Cell of IITJ.
IITJ Faculties involved as inventors and innovators 
in various projects get appropriate opportunities for 
incubation at IITJ TISC. IITJ has policies in place which 
encourages various faculties for promoting their startups 
through incubation. Also, based on the field of work 
Faculties are associated with student-led startups 
incubated at TISC as Faculty mentors. For initiating 
and executing various programs and projects funded 
by external agencies IITJ faculties are associated as 
Principal Investigator (PI) and give their valuable inputs 
and efforts till the completion of such programs/ projects. 
In addition to these, Faculties are associated in various 
training programs, certificate courses, entrepreneurship 
awareness program, and Hackathons being conducted 
by TISC from time to time. Engagement of the faculties 
in various initiatives being taken through the Institution 
Innovation Council (IIC) and Board of Innovation and 
Entrepreneurship is also acting like a bridge for bringing 
potential ideas for preincubation/ incubation at TISC.
Initiatives during the period covered (e.g. 
MoUs, Projects, Collaborations)
i.	

Collaboration between IITJ TISC and WhizHack 
Technologies Private Limited

TISC in collaboration with WhizHack collaborated 
and launched a certificate training program in 
advanced Cyber Security and Cyber Defense. More 
than 100 candidates have been trained through this 
course.
ii. MoU between IITJ TISC and TiE Rajasthan

A MoU was signed between TiE Rajasthan and
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

IITJ TISC to undertake various incubation and 
mentoring programs leading to Startup building, 
growth and funding.
iii. MoU between TISC and TIH iHub Drishti

For providing incubation support in exploring 
commercialization of innovative technologies/ 
research results owned/ in-licensed and/ or 
collaborated by iHub through Hub selected and/ or 
funded start-ups, a MoU was signed between TIH 
and TISC.
iv. 
Mentoring IITJ TISC startups through PadUp 
Ventures and collaboration opportunities

To provide good mentoring support to incubated 
startups TISC had discussions for PadUp ventures 
and four Incubatees/Start-ups were selected by Pad 
Up ventures for their SAMRIDH program. Discussion 
for long term association are in advance stage.
Activities (lectures/talks/hackathons/
competitions)
i.	
Medical Device Hackathon (MEDHA) 2022

IITJ TISC associated with Biomedical Engineering 
and Technology Innovation Centre (BETIC), IIT 
Bombay and successfully conducted a Medical 
Device Hackathon. Two teams from TISC presented 
in the national level competition held at IIT Bombay.

Both of our recommended teams gave good 
performance, one of them given direct entry to the 
next round i.e., Medical Device Innovation Camp 
(MEDIC). The team will also get support up to Rs 
20,000 for prototyping works. This training camp is 
conducted at IIT Bombay and BETIC team guides 
the selected teams during the camp. The other 
team got the certificate for ‘Best Market Research’.
ii. 
Visit of Dr. Nilotpal Ghosh from SERB and 
Interaction with TISC Incubatees:

TISC took the opportunity to invite Dr. Nilotpal 
Ghosh, Scientist-F, SERB to TISC and an interaction 
with our incubatees was held on 15th Nov, 2021. Dr. 
Ghosh gave insights on various funding as well as 
technical matters.
iii. Visit of Secretary, Department of Biotechnology, 
GoI and Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT 
Jodhpur to TISC:
TISC organized an exhibition related to the work of 
its Incubatees as well as pre-Incubatees on the eve 
of the 7th Convocation of the Institute. Dr. Rajesh S 
Gokhale (Secretary, Department of Biotechnology, 
GoI) and Dr. R. Chidambaram (Chairman Board 
of Governors, IIT Jodhpur) on December 18, 
2021 graced the occasion. About 20 participants 
presented their posters/ models/ prototypes.
iv. Visit of CEO, ARTPARK-IISc. Bangalore to TISC
Shri Umakant Soni, CEO-ARTPARK visited IITJ TISC. 
A meeting for exploring opportunities for IITJ TISC 
startups as well as a joint accelerator program by 
ARTPARK, IITJ TISC, and iHub Drishti was held.
v. Online webinars:
a. 
A webinar on “Frugal Engineering: An Emerging 
Paradigm for Innovation and Startups” was 
organized on December 1st, 2021. The talk 
was delivered by Dr. P.K. Dan, IIT Kharagpur. 
Approximately 30 participants attended the 
event.
b. 
Another webinar was held on topic entitled 
“Different Type of Business Entities for Startups 
under Indian Law” on 5th March 2022.
c.
 
Webinar on ‘Registration of Start-ups as Private 
Ltd. companies-Dos and Don’ts’ was arranged
d. 
In association with MSME Technology center 
Bhiwadi webinar on “Hydraulic Servo Systems 
-Modeling, Simulation and Control” “Future of 
Materials Handling” and “Industrial automation 
and Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs) for 
Automation” was arranged.
e. 
Online awareness sessions for various Govt. 
funding schemes and preparing for these 
schemes like Biotechnology Ignition Grant (BIG) 
were conducted.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

vi. Short-term online course with the Department of 
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering:
TISC in association with the Department of Civil and 
Infrastructure Engineering conducted a short-term 
online course on “Structural Health Monitoring” 
under Management Development Program (MDP) 
on Smart Infrastructure and Sustainability” during 
03- 07 January 2022.
vii. Presentation for MSME Idea Hackathon 2022
MSME had invited ideas for Hackaton-2022. Six 
applications were received by TISC who had 
chosen IITJ as host institute for incubation. Based 
on screening committee evaluation two ideas were 
forwarded to MSME for funding support.
viii.	TISC participated in IIT Jodhpur open house “IIT 
Paadharo”
IITJ TISC showcased its incubatees products 
through poster presentation, demos/ prototypes/ 
working models during IITJ Paadharo event.
ix. Biotech Startup Expo-2022
On the occasion of BIRAC foundation day, as part 
of BioNEST family, IITJ TISC presented about the 
work being done by our Incubatees/Startups and 
also the Entrepreneurial activities and environment 
at TISC and IITJ. The event was inaugurated by the 
Hon’ble Prime Minister of India and held in New 
Delhi.
x. IITJ Foundation Day 2022
On the occasion of IIT Jodhpur’s fifteenth (15th) 
Foundation Day on 2nd August 2022, Technology 
Innovation Start-up Center (TISC) organized
an exhibition of all Incubatees/ Startups/ Pre-
Incubatees.
xi. Talk Series- under the Vigyan se Vikas umbrella
To commemorate the build up to India @ 75 
celebrations, BioNEST at IIT J TISC organized a 
series of talks under the Vigyan se Vikas umbrella 
to Showcase Potential, Journey and Impact of 
Biotechnology on the Society on the 28th of 
June 2021. The following eminent Bioscience 
researchers delivered their talks on this occasion:
•	

Prof Raghavan Varadarajan - Professor at the 
Molecular Biophysics Unit at IISc Bangalore
•	

Prof Dulal Panda - Chair professor – 
Biosciences and Bioengineering dept at IIT 
Bombay
•	

Prof Ashok Kumar – Biological Sciences and 
Bioengineering department at IIT Kanpur
•	

Prof Suman Kumar Dhar – professor at the 
Special Centre for Molecular Medicine of 
Jawaharlal Nehru University.
•	

Prof Souvik Maiti – Sr Principal scientist at 
Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology
xii. Visit of Dr Samir K. Brahmachari to IITJ TISC
IITJ TISC organized visit and interaction of Dr Samir 
K. Brahmachari, formed DG-CSIR with IITJ TISC 
Incubatees and MMT students as well.
xiii.	Time to time interaction with IITJ students and 
faculty were done through E-Cell and Institution 
Innovation Council.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Achievements (Product development/technology transfer/start-ups OR incubation)
•

A total of 07 no. products/technologies have been developed by TISC incubatees. Product of one of the 
incubatee startups (Divya Plasma Solutions Pvt. Ltd) was launched during IITJ Foundation Day.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S. No Name Faculty/Student/MSME/BIG Project/Product title
1 Dr Saakshi
Dhanekar Faculty under (BIRAC BIG Grant) Indigenous alcohol breath analyser for prevention
of drink and driving case
2 Dr Amandeep Kaur Faculty under (BIRAC BIG Grant) An Endoscopic Camera System
3 Mr. Vigyan Gadodia Student along with faculty Small-scale Milk Disinfection System
advisor Dr Ram Prakash (MSME)
4 Mr. Wilfred Kisku Student along with faculty Human Perception driven on-chip compression for
advisor Dr Amandeep Kaur power efficient CMOS image sensors
(MSME)
5 Mr. Bibhudutta
Satapathy Student along with faculty Non-Contact Blood Oxygen Saturation
advisor Dr Deepak Mishra Measurements
(MSME)
6 Mr. S.Subburayalu Student along with faculty Self-cleaning of Endoscope
advisor Dr Ravi K.R. (MSME)
7 Dr. Neelam Rathore IIT Bombay Alumni Safe Sanitization: Easy production of different
concentrations of hypochlorous acid from the
homebased ingredients, water, and electricity
8 Dr Anup Kakwani IITJ MMT 2020 (Master Degree) Novel Root Canal Irrigation Device
Student
9 Thilak Chakravarthy IITJ MMT 2020 (Master Degree) Developing Socket- Based Anti-Fogging Lens for
Student ENT Endoscopes
10 Rajshree IITJ MMT 2020 (Master Degree) Continuous BP Monitoring using a Convenient
Student Non-Invasive Cuffless Device
11 Dr Ram Prakash Faculty Start-up Indoor Air Purifier Systems (Divya Plasma Solutions
Pvt. Ltd)
12 Dr Sumit Kalra Faculty Start-up Telemedicine Solutions (Novealthy Innovations Pvt.
Ltd)
Facilities set up for BioNEST Bioincubator
TISC had got the grant for setting up the BioNEST Bioincubator from BIRAC. Facilities in terms of seating 
space, lab benches, high end equipemnts have been made operational progressively. Many of these 
equipemnts have been installed and are being used by the incubatees.
Current Incubatee/Start-ups projects:
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

i. 
SEED Fund Support 
and Monthly 
assistance Policy

TISC Board approved 
policy for SEED Fund 
and Monthly assistance 
for incubatee startups. 
Under this lump sum 
assistance as well as 
monthly assistance will 
be provided to eligible 
startups.
ii. 
Interaction 
with various 
stakeholders

Various meetings 
were held from time to 
time to build external 
relations with ecosystem 
partners e.g. iStart 
Rajasthan, TiE Rajasthan, 
Ratanada Ventures, 
MSME Technology 
Center Bhiwadi, Marwari 
Catalyst, HDFC Bank to 
name a few.
iii. 
Incubation of MMT 
students

Three student ideas 
coming from Master’s 
in medical technologies 
program, a joint program 
of IITJ and AIIMS Jodhpur 
have been provided 
incubation support for 
one year at TISC.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Jodhpur City Knowledge and 
Innovation Foundation (JCKIF)
Introduction
Jodhpur City Knowledge and Innovation Foundation 
(JCKIF), is a Section-8 company (Non-Profit Organization) 
established on 31st March, 2021 under the Companies 
Act 2013 to carry out and sustain the activities of Jodhpur 
City Knowledge and Innovation Cluster (JCKIC). JCKIC 
is one of the six clusters sanctioned by the Office of the 
Principal Scientific Adviser (OPSA) to the Government 
of India on the recommendation of the Prime Minister’s 
Science, Technology and Innovation Advisory Council 
(PM-STIAC) to create an Atmanirbhar Bharat through 
Science & Technology. Indian Institute of Technology 
Jodhpur (IITJ) is the nodal agency for JCKIC.
JCKIF acts as a facilitator for Jodhpur Cluster to create 
strong linkages among Academic Institutions, R & 
D Institutes, National & State Research Laboratories, 
Government Agencies and Industries of the city of 
Jodhpur and its surroundings. Faculty members of IIT 
Jodhpur community are associated with JCKIF in the 
capacity of PI or Co-PI for different projects under six 
verticals, namely Medical Technologies, Handicrafts and 
Handlooms, Water and Environment, I-Governance, AIoT 
Innovation Hub and Thar DESIGNS
Initiatives
Projects
JCKIF has financially supported the following 
projects:
•
Smart Graded-Water Supply Grid: In this project, the 
objective is to develop and collect essential data 
related to the water supply system of IIT Jodhpur,
and use AIoT based smart management to maximize 
water utilization at minimum expenditure.
•
Jodhpur Urban Air Quality Monitoring Project (JUMP): 
In this project, the objective is to study the indoor and 
ambient air quality in different micro-environments of 
Jodhpur, and assess the level of awareness about 
air pollution among the residents of Jodhpur.
•
Thar Designs: Towards integrated study of the desert 
ecosystem to propel discoveries, inventions and 
innovation for mitigating water and health challenges 
and catalyzing growth of industry and agriculture 
for sustenance and livelihood to evolve strategies 
for sustained management of natural resources, 
ecological development and integrative precision 
health in arid regions’. A pilot study of project 
“Ecosystem phenomics inspired solutions for one 
health” has undertaken various objectives related to 
Bioprospecting, Bioinspiration, Biological Soil Crusts 
(BSCs), Ecosystem phenomics and Citizen Science 
of Thar.
•
Handicrafts and Handlooms: Partnered with a private 
company to develop AR-VR (Augmented and Virtual 
Reality) based Web Portal, E-Commerce and Digital 
Museum for the upliftment and promotion of local 
artisans and their crafts.
•
I-Governance: Involved in co-development with a 
private company towards providing smart traffic 
management solutions for the City of Jodhpur.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Programmes
•
Masters, PhD and Masters-PhD Programs in Medical 
Technologies (MMT) jointly offered by IIT Jodhpur 
& AIIMS Jodhpur was initiated in FY 2020-21 with 
25 students. Further 19 more students have joined 
the program in FY 2021-22 taking the tally to 44 
students registered under the program.
•
44 registered students, 03 pre-incubates, 8 Patents 
submitted as of now
•
JCKIF providing financial support to some MMT 
students as stipend and for procurement of 
glassware, chemicals etc.
MoUs
JCKIF has signed MoUs with many Academic institutes 
and Research organizations, as well as with Industries.
a. MoU signed on September 05, 2021 with All India 
Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Defence 
R&D Organization (DRDO), Central Arid Zone 
Research Institute (ICAR-CAZRI), National Institute 
on Implementation Research (ICMR-NIIRNCD), 
Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Rajasthan Ayurved 
University Jodhpur, Dr. Sampurnanand Medical 
College (SNMC), Jodhpur Industries Association 
(JIA), Rao Jodha Park, Podar Educational Institutions.
b. 
MoU signed with Rajasthan State Industrial Development & Investment Corporation Limited (RIICO) on October 
05, 2021 in the presence of Shri. Parsadi Lal Meena, then Hon. Minister of Industry, Govt. of Rajasthan.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

c. Agreement signed between RajCOMP Info Services Pvt. Ltd. (RISL), IIT Jodhpur and JCKIF on February 22, 2022
Activities
JCKIF has been involved in a plethora of activities around the year.
•

A series of 12 lectures titled “Thar Talk Series: AI and Beyond” was organized jointly by the School of Artificial 
Intelligence and Data Science (AIDE), IIT Jodhpur and JCKIF.
•

JCKIF in collaboration with NIFT Jodhpur and IIT Jodhpur has organized the 2nd and 3rd Need Assessment 
Workshop Series “Crafts, Tourism and the Pandemic – gauging the current status”, on April 12, 2021 and May 01, 
2021.
•

Two lectures under “Biodesign Talk series” were organized under the joint programs in Medical Technologies 
by IIT Jodhpur and AIIMS Jodhpur on July 10, 2021 and Sep 25, 2021.
Achievements
Startups incubated in the area of Medical Technologies.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

TIH - iHub Drishti Foundation
The TIH (Technology Innovation Hub) at IIT Jodhpur, 
named iHub Drishti, focuses on building cyber-physical 
systems for Computer Vision (CV), Augmented Reality 
(AR) and Virtual Reality (VR). It is a Section-8, Not-for-
profit organisation promoted by and at IIT Jodhpur under 
National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber physical 
System (NM-ICPS) of Government of India.
In FY 2021-22, iHub Drishti has developed 20 
technologies as part of RAKSHAK (Remedial Action, 
Knowledge Skimming, and Holistic Analysis) initiative of 
DST. The hub has translated some of these technologies 
into products/ databanks:
1.	
Campus Rakshak: A product bouquet consisting of 
technically astute components to cater: (i) A badging 
system that enables the real-time implementation of 
interventions for COVID. (ii) The app that builds an 
anonymous contact graph, which can aid contact 
tracing. (iii) A novel smart pooling scheme to 
quantitatively screening resulting in considerable 
savings in screening cost. (iv) Simulator that tracks 
the spatial movement of agents which enables 
rich visualisation of activity on campuses. Pilot 
commercial run has been done at IIIT hyderabad and 
IIT jodhpur campuses.
2. Smart Health Solution for Rapid Mass Screening using 
Integrated Telemedicine for Homecare: Monitoring 
SpO2, heart rate, temperature of human body. Web 
and Android Application for video conference and 
chat support. The telemedicine solution is supported 
in Hindi, Bangla and English. The solution has been 
deployed at IIT Jodhpur PHC, and at a village in 
Sundarban area, West Bengal.
3. Other prototypes/products are: (i) AI-based platform 
to monitor and identify smell, taste and key 
COVID-19 therapeutic hotspots. (ii) Lakshman Rekha 
- A biometric smartphone App for strict post-COVID 
home quarantine management. (iii) Social distance 
alert - a wrist band for COVID based on RFID and 
bluetooth technology.
4. Databanks: 4 databanks have been created under 
RAKSHAK program: (i) Chest CT scans data of Indian 
COVID-19 patients, (ii) Radiology data for SARS nCov-
2, (iii) Speech and Coughing breathing sound data, 
(iv) 5 lungs diseases chest X-Ray dataset.
iHub Drishti has cohosted IEEE International Conference 
on Automatic Face and Gesture Recognition 2021. It 
has co-organised SRS 2022 in collaboration with ACM 
student chapter IIT Jodhpur. It has also organised a 
hackathon in collaboration with Prithvi.AI (Industry 
Partner).
A MOU has been signed and five projects initiated in 
collaboration with DRDO CAIR: (i) Real-time 3D scene 
reconstruction and localization of autonomous ground 
vehicles in unknown environments, (ii) Seeing through 
occlusions, (iii) Visual intelligence generation from wide 
area sensing, (iv) TrustMe: Explainable adversarial attack 
detection and mitigation for object recognition algorithm, 
(v) Human-in-loop control for semi-autonomous system 
under presence of multimodal sensing and actuation 
delays.
Following projects initiated through Open Call: (i) Game 
development with ASI, (ii) India Anatomy Project Umbrella, 
(iii) Improving doctor-patient communication using VR, 
(iv) Haptics based medical simulators for palpation 
and tele-diagnosis, (v) Content creation solution for AR 
VR, (vi) Digital museum development with Rajasthan 
Government.
iHub Drishti has installed and commissioned an AI 
System built on NVIDIA A100, NVIDIA DGX A100 which 
is the universal system for all AI workloads and offers 
unprecedented compute density, performance and 
flexibility in the world’s first 5 petaFLOPS AI system.
The TiH team is led by Prof. Mayank Vatsa, the Project 
Director, and Dr. Manas Bairagi, Chief Executive Officer 
(CEO).
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

IIT Jodhpur Technology Park
The Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur promotes and 
supports the technology thoughts and actions towards 
the societal reach out / impact as important extension 
activities and the Scientific Social Responsibilities. In 
fulfillment of the above, IIT Jodhpur has been engaged 
in the (a) creation of a vibrant ecosystem that incubates 
and promotes learning, research, inventions and 
eventually innovations; and (b) providing technology 
innovations as a force to as many industries as possible 
for the economic value creation. The latter is planned 
through the IIT Jodhpur Technology Park in the sprawling 
campus of IIT Jodhpur having advanced facilities 
for industry engagement and scale-up of innovation 
capacity by leveraging the available intellectual capital 
at IIT Jodhpur. We are working towards diffusion of 
the fruits of cutting-edge R&D from IITJ by setting up 
state-in-art infrastructure having facilities for design and 
development of advanced technologies. Pending the 
construction and set-up of a fully functional Technology 
Park with all add-on facilities, a mini version has already 
been established at the Innovation Centre in the 
Pocket-B of the main campus. With a few Centres of 
Excellence in the contemporary technology verticals, 
this mini version of the Technology Park at the Innovation 
Centre envisaged for the creation of a thriving techno-
entrepreneurial ecosystem. This is expected to boost 
the creation of new age technology ventures and 
directly contribute to the capacity building for emerging 
industries. Presently the industries associated at IIT 
Jodhpur Technology Park are as follows.
1.	

Johari Digital Healthcare Limited (JDHL), Jodhpur: 
One of the first MDSAP and US FDA certified GMP 
audited manufacturing company in India working on 
design, development, engineering and production 
of electronic healthcare devices to be distributed 
worldwide, has set up a Centre of Excellence for 
Medical Technologies at the Innovation Centre 
powered by JDHL. They inaugurated their centre 
on 3rd January 2022 at IIT Jodhpur Tech Park. 
The grand inauguration was done in the presence 
of esteemed guests including Prof. Santanu 
Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur, Prof. Sampat Raj 
Vadera, Deputy Director, IIT Jodhpur, Mr Satyendra 
Johari & Mrs Nisha Johari, Founders, Johari Digital 
Healthcare Ltd. and other dignitaries.
Dignitaries during inauguration session of ‘Johari Center 
of Excellence’ at IIT Jodhpur Technology Park
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Mr. Satyendra Johari, CEO & Founder, Johari Digital 
(JDHL) said it is a win-win situation for both JDHL and 
IIT Jodhpur. This collaboration will enable core research 
into innovations for world-class product development 
in the country. The R&D needs lots of efforts before 
the product gets into commercialization with complete 
quality controls and Johari Digital can play an important 
role to bridge the gap. Mrs. Nisha Johari, Co-founder, 
Johari Digital, shared that having such a CoE would 
provide an opportunity to the budding engineers to be 
absorbed for world class product development within 
the country and can help stop the brain drain from 
premium institutes like IIT. Through this venture we look 
forward to a great future.
At this occasion, Prof. Santanu Chaudhury expressed 
his happiness for this initiative and mentioned that 
there are several emerging technologies coming up 
at IIT Jodhpur potentially in different spaces. Some 
of these technologies are in the space of electronics 
as well as mechanical applications where joining 
hands with Johari will bring a set of products through 
this collaboration which will be conceptualized, 
indigenously developed and engineered so as to 
bring up products of Indian origin. This CoE will lead 
to the development of products which have originated 
from India, the entire IP as well as the manufacturing 
capability will also be with India. For a new IIT like IIT 
Jodhpur this alliance with a Global player like Johari in 
Jodhpur has a huge value. This will nucleate a MedTech 
industrial ecosystem in the country.
During the event, Johari Digital showcased numerous 
advanced technologies in healthcare which are 
Engineered to manufacture for Global Industries. 
Johari Digital is a global Medtech company with 40+ 
years of expertise in medical device manufacturing. 
The manufacturing facility complies with MDSAP, ISO 
13485:2016 and FDA (21 CFR 820) standards and 
processes. Johari’s versatile product development 
portfolio has innovative life science products, diagnostic 
devices, new AI & ML based Medical Technologies 
and therapeutic devices. The company provides
manufacturing solutions to global MedTech giants as 
well as innovative start-ups. In this CoE a few projects 
have already been initiated with the help of faculties 
and students of IIT Jodhpur.
2. 
Rajasthan Solar Association (RSA) launched 
the Centre of Excellence for Renewable Energy 
at the Indian Institute of Technology, IIT Jodhpur 
Technology Park, on Friday, 28th January 2022. 
An MoU was signed between IIT Jodhpur Tech 
Park and RSA which aims at supporting research 
and development work for renewable energy. 
The event was followed by a formal meeting of 
CSR stakeholders such as Elektrolites Power 
Ltd, Oil India Ltd., Udaipur Cement Works Ltd., 
Renew Power Pvt. Ltd., Brookfield Renewable, 
Greenko Group −a few of them be mentioned. 
The faculty experts from the Institute working 
in the different areas of renewable energy also 
made presentations. These include Prof. Manoj 
Choudhary, Dr. Deepak Fulwani, Dr. Prodyut 
Chakraborty, Dr. K. R. Ravi, Dr. Shobhana Singh, Dr. 
Ritu Gupta, Dr. V. Narayanan, Dr. Ambesh Dixit and 
Dr. Meenu Chhabra.

Some of the focus areas of research in this 
collaboration would be:
»
Advanced electronics
»
Remote monitoring
»
Trackers and inverters
»
Automatic cleaning systems
»
Solar, thermal and wind-solar
»
Interventions in solar panel technologies
»
Research on polysilicon and entire value-chain
»
AI and deep learnin
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

In addition to above, various specific courses and 
programs will also be designed to up-skill the available 
workforce resources. This collaboration would make 
IIT Jodhpur Technology Park a vital manufacturing hub 
that will provide consistent industry exposure to the 
students, professionals and other stakeholders.
3. 
WhizHack Technologies Private Limited also 
came in an agreement with IIT Jodhpur Tech 
Park and a Centre of Excellence (CoE) in Cyber-
Physical-Systems Security has been planned 
to be started w.e.f. 1st June 2022 to encourage 
and promote cooperation for developing jointly
branded Advocacy, Training programs and Product 
Development in the mentioned areas. WhizHack 
Technologies is the first Indian product engineering 
and human capital development company for 
managing complete value chain of secured cyber 
environment.

There are other proposals for centres of excellence 
under discussion and these are from a proposal 
from M/s KritiKal Solutions Pvt. Ltd., TagTaste Foods 
Pvt. Ltd. and Sonani Jewels Pvt. Ltd. Surat. to set-up 
a centre at IIT Jodhpur Technology Park.
MoU Exchanged between IITJ Tech Park and RSA
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

IITJ Marudhara Foundation
IIT Jodhpur Marudhara Foundation is a company set up 
under Section 8 of the Companies Act 2013 to support 
IIT Jodhpur in bridging the funding gaps. In order to 
work smoothly and efficiently, IIT Jodhpur Marudhara 
Foundation can retain 2-5% of the donations, grants etc 
it receives to meet expenses and sustain itself, before 
remitting the balance funds to IIT Jodhpur. Marudhara 
Foundation is incorporated in 2019 with the following 
objectives:
•

To encourage, promote and facilitate education and 
research and other activities of the Indian Institute of 
Technology Jodhpur (Institute)
•

To apply to the Government, public bodies, 
urban, local, municipal, district and other bodies, 
corporations, companies or other persons for and to 
accept grants or money, equipment, land, buildings, 
donations, gifts, subscriptions and other assistance 
with a view to promote and further the objects of the 
Company.
•

To encourage dialogue with industries for research 
and consulting projects

Being a non-profit entity, Marudhara Foundation is 
eligible to avail Income Tax exemption under Section 
12A/12AA of the IT Act. IIT Jodhpur Marudhara 
Foundation has received the 80G and 12AA
certificates thus donors will be benefited. Marudhara 
Foundation can seek donations from companies and 
donors, to obtain its initial Corpus or Seed funding 
required to set up the office and begin operations. 
IITJ Marudhara Foundation has its registered office at 
IIT Jodhpur and it envisages to set up a liaison office 
in New Delhi managed by a two-member team, i.e., 
CFO (Chief Financial Officer) and Financial Analyst or 
Accountant after seeking prior regulatory approvals.

Recently, IIT Jodhpur Marudhara Foundation has also 
reconstituted its board and added five new Board of 
Directors. IIT Jodhpur Marudhara Foundation also 
initiated the crowd funding as a result of this, 34 
students of IIT Jodhpur have agreed to donate their 
caution money to IIT Jodhpur Marudhara Foundation. 
The foundation has applied for a payment gateway; 
the payment gateway will enable it to receive 
national as well as international funds, grants and 
donations.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Name Designation
Dr. Kshema Prakash Deputy Librarian
Amardeep Sharma Joint Registrar
Ashok Kumar Khanduri Joint Registrar
Naresh Joshi Deputy Registrar
Jayita Sarkar Scientific Officer
Shakti Ranjan Patra Assistant Registrar
Himmat Singh Assistant Registrar
Baikuntha Nath Sahu Assistant Registrar
Prashant Bhardwaj Assistant Registrar
Malati T. Assistant Registrar
Ashish Kachchawaha Assistant Registrar
Anand Padegaonkar Assistant Executive Engineer (Civil)
Gaurav Bhansali Assistant Executive Engineer (Electrical)
Jayanta Borthakur Manager (ICT) – Networking
Ashish Vyas Manager (ICT) – System Administration
Rimpesh Katiyar Technical Superintendent
Narendra K. Singh Technical Superintendent
Rinkesh Kumar Mangal Technical Superintendent
Dheerendra Kumar Yadav Technical Superintendent
Poonam Chand Sankhla Technical Superintendent
Gaurav Nigam Superintendent
Sandeep Singh Chandel Superintendent
Sharabh Pradhan Superintendent
Naresh Chouhan Superintendent
Vinay Kumar Assistant Engineer (Electrical)
Amit Kumar Soni Assistant Library Information Officer
Kamleshkumar Patel Assistant Library Information Officer
Chunni Chhatwani Senior Library Information Assistant
Staff Members
The following are the Staff Members engaged in various Offices and Departments of the Institute.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Name Designation
Ashish Kumar Junior Engineer (Civil)
Amit Kumar Junior Engineer (Electrical)
Laxman Singh Junior Superintendent
Darsh Kumar Khatwani Junior Superintendent
Ashok Gehlot Junior Superintendent
Hanuman Singh Junior Superintendent
Arjun Das Physical Training Instructor
Arun Narayanan P J Assistant Industry Liaison Officer
Sharad Srivastava Senior Assistant
T. Madhavi Lata Senior Assistant
Gurpreet KaurVirdi Senior Assistant
Dhani Ram Senior Assistant
Ram Singh Ratnu Senior Technical Assistant
Swati Kushwaha Senior Assistant
Rakesh Kumar Senior Assistant
Rashmi Dhyani Senior Assistant
Trilotama Singh Senior Assistant
Vivek Verma Senior Technical Assistant
Praveen Suthar Senior Technical Assistant
Ganpat Choudhary Senior Technical Assistant
Gajraj Sharma Senior Technical Assistant
Shubham Pandey Senior Technical Assistant
Kailash Chander Senior Technical Assistant
Shashank Choudhary Junior Assistant
Dheeraj Upadhyay Junior Assistant
Neeraj Kumar Junior Assistant
Suresh Chandra Phulara Junior Assistant
Ramniwas Dhayal Junior Assistant
Sapna Sankhla Junior Assistant
Narayan Dadhich Junior Assistant
Poonam Junior Technical Assistant
Naveen Kumar Junior Technical Assistant
Ravi Jangid Junior Technical Assistant
Sampatlal N Suthar Junior Technical Assistant
Shyam Sunder Singh Junior Assistant
Ishmeet Singh Junior Assistant
Ganesh Kumawat Junior Assistant
Shankar Singh Junior Assistant
Lalit Mohan Junior Assistant
Arjun Singh Junior Assistant
Robin Singh Kaintura Junior Assistant
Sambaji Junior Assistant
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Name Designation
Sunil Kumar Junior Assistant
Deepika Sharma Junior Assistant
Mahendra Singh Meena Junior Assistant
Kalpana Deep Junior Assistant
Bonagiri Umamaheswara Rao Junior Technical Assistant
S. C. Bose Advisor (Academics)
P. G. Basak Advisor (Administration) & Offg. Registrar
S. D. Jatav Audit Officer
Kirity Kumar Roy Advisor (Industry-Academia Interface)
Nivedita Verma English Language Instructor
Mohit Mathur Manager (Facilities)
Dr. G. Kiran Arya Medical Officer
Ashish Kumar Junior Engineer (Civil) Group B
Neeraj Kumar Junior Assistant Group C
Bharat Pareek Technical Superintendent Group B
Darsh Kumar Khatwani Senior Assistant Group C
Shakti Ranjan Patra Assistant Registrar Group A (Jointly awarded)
Anand Padegaonkar Assistant Executive Engineer (Civil)
Laxman Singh Junior Superintendent Group B
Gajraj Sharma Technical Assistant Group C
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

New Initiatives towards 
Vision 2025
Aside from setting up an Office for Planning and Resource 
Generation and a Vision coordination committee to 
implement the carefully thought-out vision, the Institute 
is actively taking coordinated efforts on several fronts to 
realize the lofty vision that it has embarked on.
Curriculum, pedagogy and student life cycle: On the 
academic front, the Institute recently revamped its 
curriculum across departments with the aim of creating 
human resources that can solve the problems of the 
future. The revamped curriculum also offers increased 
flexibility to the students to build their own B.Tech. program 
by selecting various capability-linked opportunities 
(minors, departmental specializations, dual degrees 
etc.). The Institute has launched new programs including 
BS programs (Chemistry & Physics), PG programs (M. 
Sc. in Computational Social Science, Executive M.Tech. 
programs in various domains), certificate courses and 
continuing education programmes. A new school of 
liberal arts (SoLA) has been established by the Institute 
with the goal of advancing liberal arts education 
and research in the Country. The Institute has also 
established a new model for the B.Tech. program 
with the launch of the B.Tech. program in Engineering 
Science. All new programs and the revamped curriculum 
of existing courses are being delivered using innovative 
pedagogical 
methods. 
Faculty 
Members 
using 
innovative teaching methods are regularly recognized 
by teaching excellence and the Dr. Vandana Sharma 
award for Innovation in Teaching. The Institute has setup 
the facility required for delivery of these course contents 
online, offline and in hybrid mode, preparing itself for a 
future, where education will largely be online. In addition
to the academic activities, IIT Jodhpur enables students 
to have an enriching experience by being part of various 
co-curricular and extra-curricular activities. To this effect, 
the Institute has organized and functionalized the student 
councils and their constituent boards and societies:
Student Activity Council (SAC)
•
Board of Art & Culture
•
Board of Literary Affairs
•
Board of Student Sports
•
Board of Student Welfare
•
Board of Hostel Affairs
Academic and Co-Curricular Activity Council 
(ACAC)
•
Board of Academic Interactions
•
Board of Co-curricular affairs
•
Board of Departmental Society
•
Board of Innovation and Entrepreneurship
•
Board of Career Development
•
Society for Alumni Affairs
Several activities and events were organized with great 
enthusiasm in the last financial year by the student 
bodies creating an enriching environment for the student 
campus life.
Research, collaboration and industry connect: IIT 
Jodhpur’s research focus areas have expanded 
substantially and the Institute has ventured into several 
interdisciplinary research areas in partnership with 
industry, government and academic institutions of national
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

and international repute. Of particular note, the Institute 
has entered into memoranda of understanding with 
the Electronic Industries Association of India; Siemens 
Software; Rajasthan State Industrial Development and 
Investment Corporation Ltd.; Wiley India Private Limited; 
Institut Polytechnique De Grenoble to collaborate on 
various frontier areas. This has been facilitated largely 
by the Office of Corporate Relations and the Office of 
International Relations & Outreach, recently set up by 
the Institute. Our corporate relations does not restrict 
engagement with industry just for sponsored research 
and consultancy, but also for industry level skilling, 
reskilling and upskilling. In a consistent move towards 
engaging with industry for research, departmental 
industry days were organized by various academic units 
of the Institute. The Institute also recognizes upcoming 
and senior researchers within the Institute by awarding 
young and senior researcher awards during its annual 
foundation day celebrations. In addition to research 
excellence awards, the Institute has also launched the 
Moonshot competition to stimulate innovative ideation 
among it’s Faculty Members. The Institute has launched 
the International Research Mobility Grant scheme for 
young Faculty Members to enable them to establish 
international research collaborations and visit these 
Institutions of repute. Work from IIT Jodhpur has been 
published in journals and conferences of national and 
international repute. The Institute has consistently 
worked towards improving intellectual property (IP) 
among the IITJ community. The Office of Research and 
Development, empanelled several distinguished IP 
attorneys and experts to support researchers in securing 
their IPs. It is noteworthy that two patents were granted, 
three filed and one published in the financial year 2021-
22. The Institute also transferred technology for the 
CODE device for better indoor air quality maintenance 
to M/s. Divya Plasma Solution Pvt. Ltd. Noida.
Infrastructure, financial plan and outreach: The Institute 
is among the top in second generation IITs, who have 
completed infrastructure as per the revised DPR 2015. 
With phases 1 and 2 successfully completed, the Institute 
has had a growth spurt with the erection of various 
academic and non-academic buildings in the last year. 
As always, the focus of our infrastructure development 
has been sustainability. To this effect the Institute has
initiated several sustainability actions under the two 
major verticals (Horticulture and Landscaping (HoLa) and 
Society, Energy and Environment (SEE)) of it’s unique 
campus sustainability program. With a futuristic vision, 
the Institute had constituted a new financial model 
taskforce in order to innovate financial management of 
the Institute. The taskforce recently submitted its interim 
report. The Institute is also actively pursuing CSR funding 
from various avenues and philanthropic donations 
through different channels to sustain its rapid growth. 
The Institute recognizes the value of outreach and 
constantly engages with different stakeholders through 
dedicated channels. As an Institute with scientific 
social responsibility, IIT Jodhpur engages with local 
stakeholders for the benefit of the region. One such 
major initiative is the provision of clean water to local 
schools by design and installation of water purification 
systems. The Institute also led several projects under the 
Unnat Bharat Abhiyan during the COVID-19 outbreak for 
development of relevant technologies. To engage with 
various stakeholders on various fronts, the Institute has 
set up section 8 companies such as:
•
The IITJ Marudhara foundation to encourage, 
promote and facilitate education and research and 
other activities of the Institute, engage with industry, 
PanIIT Alumni and other major stakeholders for the 
overall development of the Institute.
•
iHub Drishti established under National Mission 
on Interdisciplinary Cyber-Physical System (NM-
ICPS). The hub endeavors to ramp up its activities 
encompassing development of technology and 
products, setting up state-of-the-art labs, generation 
of intellectual properties, increasing CPS research 
base, development of entrepreneurial ecosystem, 
job creation, human resource development and 
international collaboration.
•
Jodhpur City Knowledge and Innovation Cluster 
/ Foundation created with the goal to provide a 
necessary platform to create synergy between 
all the stakeholders to make use of available 
knowledge as well as to develop advanced 
technologies, creative skills, state of the art 
infrastructure, and innovative environment in an 
organized manner so as to ensure sustainable and 
systematic development of the city of Jodhpur.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S. No. MoU / Agreement signed between Date of signing
1 MoU between Dr. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHAN RAJASTHAN AYURVED UNIVERSITY,
JODHPUR & IIT JODHPUR 24.02.2021
2 License Agreement between Confederation Of Indian Industry and IIT Jodhpur 06.01.2021
3 MoU between Wiley India Private Limited and IIT Jodhpur 17.08.2021
4 MoU between Institut polytechnique De Grenoble and IIT Jodhpur 01.05.2021
5 MoU between Sharman Foundation and IIT Jodhpur 25-04-2022
•
IITJ Technology Innovation and Start-up Center, the 
umbrella incubation center of IITJ has a mandate to 
incubate Deep-Tech startups along with the aim of 
developing a vibrant entrepreneurship ecosystem 
in the institute and the larger region in the state of 
Rajasthan. IITJ TISC received the coveted BioNEST 
grant from Biotechnology Industry Research 
Assistant Council (BIRAC) to set up a Bio Incubator 
which gained the distinction of becoming the first 
instance of a Bio Incubator in the state of Rajasthan
•
IIT Jodhpur has also set up a technology park 
having advanced facilities for industry engagement 
and scale-up of innovation capacity by leveraging 
the available intellectual capital at IIT Jodhpur. 
The goal of IIT Jodhpur’s technology park is to 
provide technology innovations as a force to as 
many industries as possible for the economic value 
creation.
Overall, the Institute has not only grown rapidly, but also 
meaningfully on various fronts towards the vision that it 
had set for itself.
Planning & Resource 
Generation
New Financial Model Task Force produced an Interim 
Report which documents the necessary steps for the 
up-gradation of existing practices and putting in place 
prudent measures for better overall management.
Coordinating review of vision implementation at various 
academic units. For resource generation, the office 
has been approaching several corporates and sharing 
different opportunities for supporting the institute. 
Associate Dean (Planning & Resource Generation) was 
also part of an institute-level delegation and made a 
presentation at the inauguration of the IIT Jodhpur 
Alumni Association - North America chapter.
International Relations and Outreach
The Office of International Relations and Outreach looks after the international collaborations, alumni relations, and 
continuing education program, in the Institute. Details of National and International MoUs arranged through the 
Office of International Relations and Outreach are as below.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S. No. MoU / Agreement signed between Date of signing
6 MoU between The University at Albany, State University of New York, USA and
IIT Jodhpur 19.05.2022
7 MoU between The University at Albany, State of New York, USA and IIT Jodhpur (Deptt.
of CS&E) 19.05.2022
8 MoU between The University at Albany, State of New York, USA and IIT Jodhpur (Deptt.
of Electrical Engineering) 19.05.2022
9 MoU between The University at Albany, State of New York, USA and IIT Jodhpur (SM&E) 19.05.2022
10 Co-operation Agreement for joint Multi-institutional International Education, (among
University at Buffalo (The State University of New York), IIT Delhi, IIT Kanpur, IIT Bombay,
IIT(BHU) Varanasi and Ashoka University Sonipat Research, and Training 17.05.2022
11 Agreement for a Joint PhD Degree Program (JPD) between IIT Jodhpur and University at
Buffalo 17.05.2022
Sharman Foundation Scholarship for B. Tech. 
Students
The Institute has collaborated with Sharman 
Foundation, USA, a USA-based non-profit organization 
founded by Dr. Vinay Jain and his family for providing 
funding support for at-need students in India to pursue 
education in a technical field. The foundation has 
been providing funding support to many UG students 
at various IITs for the last few years and IIT Jodhpur is 
included on the list this year. The Foundation is giving 
scholarships to an individual who is having an annual 
household income of less than 5 lac rupees.
Alumni Relations
Alumni are important stakeholders of the Institute. The 
Alumni Relations Committee (ARC) primarily focuses 
on engagement of alumni in a purposeful manner, 
which benefits the Alumni, Students, and the Institute. 
The Committee enables and facilitates activities that 
(1) Benefit our Alumni (2) Foster mutual trust and (3) 
Promote professional and technical excellence.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

The Alumni of IIT Jodhpur have always brought pride 
to their Alma Mater by excelling in their respective 
professions as part of multinational companies, 
esteemed institutions of research, prominent institutions 
of higher education or rapidly growing entrepreneurial 
ventures. A glimpse of the initiatives undertaken by the 
Alumni Relations Committee along with the Society of 
Alumni Affairs in the last year are presented below:
The Alumni Connect-PG Orientation 2021
A panel discussion featuring IIT Jodhpur PG alumni was 
organized as part of the PG Orientation 2021 Program 
scheduled on 22.07.2021. Our Alumni Ms. Nupur 
Rathore, Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering (Class of 2020), 
a Senior Technical Lead in Mercedes; Ms. Namrata Pant 
(Class of 2019) M.Tech, in Bioscience & Bioengineering
currently working as Researcher in Tata Research and 
Development Centre and Ms. Shruti Srivastava, M.Tech. 
in Information and Communication Technology (Class of 
2018), Senior Associate, Technology in Morgan Stanley 
served as panelists. Alumni oriented the new students 
by sharing their experiences, hardships and learnings 
during their tenure at IIT Jodhpur and offered guidance 
to PG students on how they can make the most of 
their time here at IIT Jodhpur to prepare themselves 
for a career in the real world. The Alumni strongly 
focused on being a student and learner throughout life, 
exploring opportunities coming your way and accepting 
the changes and just keep going and being focused 
to achieve your targets. The discussion was further 
followed by the Breakout session with each Alumni for 
the new students. The event ended with the formal vote 
of thanks proposed by Dr. Shankar Manahoran.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Alumni Town Hall
On 30 October 2021 the Alumni Relations Committee (ARC) organized an 
Alumni townhall to address key questions from prospective and current 
undergraduate students on navigating through the various stages of life at an 
IIT. Mr. Tejas Muley, Manager R&D, Michelin India B.Tech. (ME), Class of 2012; 
Mr. Sundara Tejaswi Digumarti, Postdoctoral Researcher, Oxford Robotics 
Institute, UK., B.Tech. (EE), Class of 2012; Mr. Siddarth Jain Chief of Staff OSD, 
Govt. of India B.Tech. (ME), Class of 2014; Mr. Harsh K Gandhi, Ph.D. in Electrical 
Engineering, Caltech B.Tech. (EE), Class of 2021; and Mr. Tanmay Sethi, Co-
Founder - Nebula Innovations B.Tech. (ME), Class of 2014 served as panelists of 
the event.
The Alumni Connect-Samanvay UG 
Orientation 2021
Samanvay, the Alumni connect event was organized 
on 4 December 2021 as the final leg of the UG 
orientation program for the 2021 batch of UG 
students at IIT Jodhpur. The event started with 
a welcome address by the Chairman (Alumni 
Relations Committee), Dr. Shankar Manoharan. The 
event was graced by invited speaker Ms. Mahua 
Mukherjee Co-Founder, The Star in me - A career 
advancement platform for women, Alumnus of 
IIT Kharagpur. Ms. Mukherjee shared her journey 
as a student and the path she took to become an 
entrepreneur. She also discussed key skills that 
new students need to build through academic and 
cocurricular activities at IITs. Mr. Shashank Kumar, 
Founder at PushOwl (Acquired by Sendinblue) 
and alumnus of IIT Jodhpur, delivered a talk on 
“Building the foundation of entrepreneurship during 
college”. This was followed by a panel discussion 
among alumni of IITJ Ms. Swathi Manda Researcher 
in Massachusetts, USA; Ms. Akansha Saran, 
Graduate Research Assistant, Austin, USA; Dr. Rohit 
Maitri, Senior Data Scientist, KPMG, Amsterdam, 
Netherlands; Dr. Arun Balajee Vasudevan, 
Researcher, Adobe, Zurich, Switzerland. All the 
participants were benefited by the experience 
of the speakers and panelists. The event was
concluded with a vote of thanks by Mr. Haider Ali 
Quadri, Vice President, Society for Alumni Affairs.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Alumni Induction Program 2021
On 18 December 2021, the Alumni Relations Committee 
organized an Alumni Induction program followed by 
Dinner on the eve of the convocation of the Institute. 
The event started with the welcome address by 
Chairman Alumni Relations Committee, Dr. Shankar 
Manoharan followed by an Induction address by Prof. 
Santanu Chaudhury, Director IIT Jodhpur. Our beloved 
Chairman Board of Governors, Prof. R. Chidambaram 
addressed the graduates and motivated them to 
work for the betterment of the Nation. The event
concluded with a formal vote of thanks by Dr. Kaushal 
Desai, Associate Dean International Relations and 
Outreach followed by Dinner. In a fundraising campaign 
organized by the Alumni Relations Committee as part 
of this event, 34 Students of Class of 2022 chose 
to donate their caution deposit to the IIT Jodhpur 
Marudhara foundation, a section 8 Company of IIT 
Jodhpur. We are grateful and applaud our Alumni, who 
have contributed to the welfare of the Institute and the 
student community.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Annual Alumni Day 2022
The Annual Alumni Day of the Institute was 
organized virtually on the 26th of March 2022. 
The event was organized by the Alumni Relations 
Committee in collaboration with the IIT Jodhpur 
Alumni association. The event was attended by 
IIT Jodhpur Alumni across the world and by the 
IIT Jodhpur community. The event began with a 
welcome address by Dr. Shahab Ahmad, Event 
Lead, Alumni Relations Committee IIT Jodhpur. Prof. 
Santanu Chaudhury, Director IIT Jodhpur addressed 
the Alumni on the vision for IIT Jodhpur and how 
Alumni can contribute to achieving the vision. Prof.
Chaudhury also outlined the various interesting 
updates to the academic programs of the Institute. 
He underscored how IIT Jodhpur considers Alumni 
as one of the key stakeholders of the Institute 
by describing several measures taken by the 
Institute to onboard in various roles at IIT Jodhpur. 
Mr. Tanmay Sethi, President, IIT Jodhpur Alumni 
Association, highlighted Initiatives & Roadmap for 
2022 from the IIT Alumni Association. This was 
followed by an address by Dr. Deepak Fulwani, 
Associate Dean (Planning & Resource Generation) in 
which he introduced the IITJ Marudhara Foundation, 
a section 8 company of the Institute.
Mr. Shashank Kumar
Recognition of Excellence in Young Alumni Awards (REYA) Winner 2022
Class of 2013 of B. Tech. Computer Science and Engineering
Founder, PushOwl (Acquired by Sendinblue)
Category : Excellence in Entrepreneurship
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

The main highlight of the evening included the 
presentation ceremony of the Recognition of 
Excellence in Young Alumni Awards (REYA). 
Mr. Shashank Kumar (Class of 2013), B.Tech., 
in Computer Science and Technology was 
conferred with the REYA award for Excellence in 
Entrepreneurship by Prof. Chaudhury. A citation 
on the merit of the awardee, was read out by 
Dr. Kaushal Desai, Associate Dean (International 
Relations & Outreach). Mr. Shashank made 
acceptance speeches highlighting how IIT Jodhpur 
had helped him to reach his current positions in 
his career. The event concluded with a formal 
vote of thanks proposed by Dr. Kaushal A Desai. 
At the end of the formal event, breakout sessions 
were organized in five popular areas for Alumni to 
network and build connections among themselves 
and with students.
First Alumni Meet of the Indian Institute of 
Technology Jodhpur in the United States
IIT Jodhpur Alumni are bringing laurels to the 
Institute from across the world. Since most of our
overseas alumni are based out of the United States 
(US), IIT Jodhpur organized its First US-based 
Alumni Meet bringing our Alumni in the US together 
and closer to the Institute. On 14th May 2022, 
the first US-based Alumni Meet was organized in 
Washington DC. Professor Santanu Chaudhury, 
Director, IIT Jodhpur, along with a delegation of 
Faculty Members met Mr. Ron Gupta, President, 
PanIIT USA who emphasized on strengthening 
the alumni activities in the US. One of the key 
announcements was the formation of the IIT 
Jodhpur Alumni Association - North America chapter 
with Mr. Suraj Nadipelly, Mr. Kedar Vaidya, and Dr. 
Heena Rathore as the focus group for initiating 
linked activities. Mr. Vinod Gupta, businessman, Pan 
IIT Alumnus, and philanthropist offered his guidance 
and advice on forming the Alumni chapter. Notably, 
Mr. Gupta also played a key role in setting up the 
Vinod Gupta School of Management, IIT Kharagpur 
at IIT Kharagpur during the early 1990s. Mr. Anshul 
Kumar, Counsellor (Education and Community Affairs 
from the Embassy of India, US, was also present at 
the meeting.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Alumni Laurels
Bootstrapped Startup PushOwl, founded by IIT Jodhpur Alumnus Gets Acquired by French Firm Sendinblue
PushOwl is a bootstrapped 
Indian startup founded by 
Mr. Shashank Kumar an 
Alumnus of IIT Jodhpur 
(B.Tech. in Computer Science 
& Engineering, Class of 
2013) has been acquired in 
September 2021 by France 
based SaaS company 
Sendinblue. PushOwl makes 
an online marketing tool for 
e-commerce stores to enable 
web push notification. Mr. 
Shashank Kumar will also 
be joining the Sendinblue 
leadership team as VP of 
Product.
Ms. Shivani Meena- 
First female mining 
engineer to work 
in Coal India’s 
underground quarry:
Our Alumnus of B.Tech. 
Electrical Engineering, Class
of 2018, Ms. Shivani Meena, the first 
female engineer of the excavation 
cadre to contribute to the quarry, 
after the first female mining engineer 
to work in Coal India’s underground 
quarry. She has created history
by contributing to the machined 
opencast quarry of Rajarappa 
project (OCP) in Ramgarh. She 
will oversee the maintenance and 
repairs of heavy machines (HEMM).
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Executive Education
The IIT Jodhpur (IITJ) CEP Office was established 
to meet the knowledge upgrading and upskilling 
needs of working professionals in the S&T industry, 
academia, and government. Under this initiative CEP 
office is coordinating PG Diploma in Data Science 
and Cloud Computing, M Tech in Augmented Reality 
and virtual Reality, M Tech in Robotics and Mobility 
Systems programs for Working Professional in addition 
to M.Tech. in Data and Computational Science. 
Also, one short term program on Data Analytics and 
Fundamentals of Machine Learning (ML) for Process 
Modelling is scheduled for October 2022. The 
Continuing Education Program is an outreach initiative 
of IIT Jodhpur which aims to cater to the training and 
development needs of the working professionals who 
have a need for specific training that is crucial to their 
professional success.
Open courses which are currently offered by the CEP 
Office at IIT Jodhpur are either:
•

Short-term open courses which typically lasts from 
few days to week(s):

A Short-Term CEP Course On Data Analytics 
and Fundamentals of Machine Learning (ML); 
Department of Chemical Engineering IIT Jodhpur 
from 6th –8th Oct,2022: This course aims to benefit 
Industrial Professionals, Practicing Engineers from 
Government/ Private organizations, Researchers 
and Faculty and Students from Chemical /Civil / 
Mechanical Engineering branches. The main aim 
of the course is to provide the introduction and 
comprehensive fundamental understanding of 
key concepts required for process data analytics, 
algebra, machine learning algorithms, statistics and 
optimization to enable process modelling.
•

Long-term courses which last from several weeks to 
years:

Post Graduate Diploma and Certificate in Data 
Engineering & Cloud Computing: For the Academic 
Year 2022-2023: This is a twelve (12) months 
intensive program, developed by IIT Jodhpur 
with marketing partner Wiley. In this program,
the students will imbibe the technologies and 
methodologies to manage the complete lifecycle 
of a data engineering project - from big data 
collection to insight generation using machine 
learning techniques, experiential learning in Data 
Engineering with a focus on Cloud Computing. 
This program aims to benefit aspiring and current 
software and technology professionals. Currently 
there are 52 candidates successfully enrolled for 
this program through the CEP Office.
Executive M.Tech program for Cognizant employees 
in the following specialization: For the Academic Year 
2022-2023: M.Tech (Data and Computational Science) 
by the Department of Mathematics at Indian Institute of 
Technology Jodhpur: The Objective of the program is to 
develop strong understanding of fundamentals of Data 
Mining, Machine Learning, and Numerical Techniques in 
the students who participate in this program.
Executive M.Tech. in Augmented Reality and Virtual 
Reality (AR & VR) by the School of AI and Data Science, 
IIT Jodhpur in collaboration with TIH iHub Drishti, 
IIT Jodhpur: The School of AI and Data Science, 
IIT Jodhpur in collaboration with TIH iHub Drishti 
Foundation, IIT Jodhpur offers Executive M.Tech in 
Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality (AR & VR) in 
which along with the Cognizant employees anyone who 
fulfills the eligibility criteria can enroll. This program has 
been designed to cater to the immediate requirement 
of working manpower trained in emerging AR & VR 
technologies.
Executive M.Tech program in (Robotics and Mobility 
Systems) is offered by the Department of Electrical 
Engineering at Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur 
to the Cognizant employees and open to the public: 
The Objective of the program is to develop strong 
understanding of fundamentals of Robotics and Mobility 
Systems.
Currently there are 300 candidates from Cognizant who 
have successfully enrolled for these three Executive 
M.Tech programs through the CEP Office .
Our team at CEP office along with the faculties are 
expert in using the right mix of learning methodologies, 
with a clear view of the desired goals.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Academics
Introduction to the activities 
of Office of Academics
The Office of Academics manages academic 
programmes of the Institute which includes admissions 
to various courses such as B.Tech, BS, M.Tech, M.Sc, 
M.Sc.-M.Tech., MBA, M.Tech.-Ph.D, Masters, Masters-
Ph.D. and Ph.D. (which are based on JEE advanced, 
GATE, JAM, CAT and UGC NET), Academic Registration, 
Examinations (online/offline) etc. The Office of 
Academics successfully conducted the 7th Convocation 
held on 19 December 2021 in physical mode wherein a 
total of 402 degrees (180 -B.Tech, 67 -M.Sc., 128 -M.Tech 
and 27 -Ph.D) were awarded.
New Initiatives taken by the Office during 
the period covered
In the Academic Year 2021-22 the Institute had 
successfully registered with NAD implementation via 
DigiLocker to facilitate students to get authenticated 
documents/certificates in digital format directly from 
their original issuers anytime, anywhere without any 
physical interface.
New Programmes Started
The Institute has planned to introduce new UG & PG 
industry-ready programmes as envisaged in the New 
Education Policy 2020. A list of new programmes 
slated to be started from the next academic year at the 
Institute is placed as under:
1.	
BS Program - BS Program in Chemistry with 
specializations, BS Program in Physics with 
Specializations
2. Master of Science Programs- M. Sc. in 
Computational Social Science
3. Master of Technology Programs- Robotics and 
Mobility Systems, Intelligent Communication 
Systems, Executive - Intelligent VLSI Systems, 
Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality (AR & VR) 
for Working Professionals, Augmented Reality 
and Virtual Reality (AR & VR) Part-time project 
sponsored, Intelligent VLSI Systems for Part-time 
and Part-time project sponsored categories, 
Robotics and Mobility Systems for working 
professionals, Executive - Cyber Physical Systems
4. Master of Technology - Doctor of Philosophy 
(M.Tech.-Ph.D.) Dual Degree Programs- Intelligent 
Communication Systems
Certificate courses
1.	
PG Diploma in Data Engineering and Cloud 
Computing program will start from A.Y. 2022-23.
2. A joint certificate course on Digital healthcare 
systems by IIT Jodhpur and AIIMS Jodhpur will start 
soon.
A new School of Liberal Arts
The Institute has proposed to establish the School of 
Liberal Arts (SoLA) that aspires to be a forerunner in 
Liberal Arts education and research by establishing 
inter and transdisciplinary research collaborations 
and pedagogic innovations that sit centrally at the 
intersections of liberal arts, scientific, and technological 
domains across the country and abroad.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

A new academic model: B.Tech. in 
Engineering science
In the Academic Year 2021-22, the Institute introduced a 
new academic model by providing an option to B.Tech. 
students after 1st year to pursue a targeted focus 
area in Science and Engineering to meet demands 
of emerging industrial and academic requirements. 
The students are required to complete core course 
requirements in the first two years of study. Further, 
the students can outline their own curriculum in the 
form of electives for the remaining two years selecting 
courses from across disciplines of engineering, science, 
and humanities. The students on graduation would 
be awarded B.Tech in Engineering Science degree. 
Similar to regular B.Tech. students, students enrolled 
in Engineering Science can also use 10 credits out of 
stipulated electives and 10 additional credits to earn a 
minor/specialization as an add-on to the B.Tech degree.
UG specializations leading to dual degree 
BTech+MTech/MBA
Students who have already opted for Major/Department 
Specialization, Minor/Interdisciplinary Specialization 
can opt for a dual-degree Programme from the eighth 
semester provided they have earned a minimum of 
130 graded Credits with at least 6 CGPA at the end 
of the 7th semester. As a special case, a student may 
be allowed to opt for a dual degree by the end of 
8th Semester if the student has at least 6 CGPA and 
continued specialization.
Teaching Excellence award
The Institute awarded the teaching excellence award 
for AY 2020-21 on the Institute foundation day held on 
02 August 2021 to the following faculty members:
1.	
Dr. Dip Shankar Banerjee
2. Prof. Mayank Vatsa
3. Dr. Kothadia Hardikkumar Bhupendra
Also, the Institute awarded Dr. Vandana Sharma 
Memorial Award Teaching Innovation to the below 
faculty members:
1. Dr. Manish Narwaria
2. Dr. Rajlaxmi Chouhan
Programmes offered
The Institute offered the following Academic Programs 
in the A.Y. 2021-22.
1. Bachelor of Technology Programs
1.	
Bioengineering
2. Computer Science and Engineering
3. Electrical Engineering
4. Mechanical Engineering
5. Material Engineering
6. Chemical Engineering
7.	
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
8. Artificial Intelligence and Data Science
2. Master of Science Programs
1.	
Chemistry
2. Mathematics
3. Physics
4. Digital Humanities
3. Master of Technology Programs
1.	
Bioscience & Bioengineering
2. Computer Science & Engineering
3. 
Computer Science and Engineering- Artificial 
Intelligence
4. Cyber Physical Systems
5. Sensors and Internet of Things
6. Advanced Manufacturing and Design
7.	
Data and Computational Sciences
8. Thermofluids Engineering
9. Materials Engineering
10. Chemical Engineering
11. 
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering with 
specialization in Environmental Engineering
12. 
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering with 
specialization in Energy
13. Executive - Artificial Intelligence
14. Executive – Data and Computational Science
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

4. Doctor of Philosophy Programs
1.	
Biosciences and Bioengineering
2. Chemistry
3. Computer Science & Engineering
4. Electrical Engineering
5. Humanities & Social Sciences
6. Mathematics
7.	
Mechanical Engineering
8. Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
9. Physics
10. Chemical Engineering
11. Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
12. Management and Entrepreneurship
13. Artificial Intelligence and Data Science
5. 
Master of Science - Master of Technology 
Programs
1. Data and Computational Sciences
2. 
M.Sc. in Physics and M.Tech. in Materials 
Engineering
6. Master of Technology - Doctor of 
Philosophy (M.Tech.-Ph.D.) Dual Degree 
Programs
1.	
Bioscience & Bioengineering
2. Computer Science & Engineering
3. Artificial Intelligence
4. Communication and Signal Processing
5. Cyber Physical Systems
6. Sensors and Internet of Things
7.	
Data and Computational Sciences
8. Materials Engineering
9. Mechanical Design
10. Advanced Manufacturing
11. Thermofluids Engineering
12. 
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering with 
specialization in Environmental Engineering
13. 
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering with 
specialization in Energy
14. Chemical Engineering
7. 
Doctor of Philosophy Program in 
Interdisciplinary Areas
1.	
Robotics and Mobility Systems Technologies
2. Science of Intelligence
3. Digital Humanities
4. IoT & Applications
5. Quantum Information and Computation
6. Smart Healthcare
7.	
Space Science & Technology
8. Medical Technologies
9. Masters - Ph.D. Dual Degree
1. Medical Technologies
10.	Masters Programs
1. Medical Technologies
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No. Roll No. Name Thesis Title Supervisor Department Thesis
Defense Date
1 PG201
384003 Mr. Anuj Kumar
Bharti Feature Binding in Working
Memory Dr. Sandeep
Kumar Yadav EE 03-Apr-21
2 P14EE001 Mr. Ajay Kumar
Mahato Fabrication and
Characterization of Photo-
Sensitive Organic Field-Effect
Transistors Dr. Shree Prakash
Tiwari EE 03-May-21
3 P16CY001 Mr. Gaurav
Bahuguna Fluorinated Nanomaterials
for Energy and Sensing
Application Dr. Ritu Gupta CY 05-May-21
4 P14BL003 Mr. Amitap
Khandelwal Development of algae
assisted Microbial Fuel Cell
for power generation and
algae cultivation Dr. Meenu
Chhabra BB 16-Jun-21
5 P15ME201 Mr. Aniket Dilip
Monde Solidification and Shrinkage:
Analytical and Numerical
Model Development with
Case Studies Dr. Prodyut
Ranjan
Chakraborty ME 01-Jul-21
6 P16EE002 Mr. Gaurav
Jajoo Blind Signal Modulation
Recognition through
Clustering Analysis of
Constellation Signature Dr. Sandeep
Kumar Yadav EE 07-Jul-21
7 P15HS201 Ms. Abhra Paul Writing the Earth: An
Ecocritical Reading of the
Selected Works of Barbara
Kingsolver Dr.Vidya
Sarveswaran HSS 19-Jul-21
8 P15PH002 Ms. Jyoti Saini Probing New Physics
Through Bottom and Top
Quark Decays Dr. Ashutosh
Kumar Alok PH 28-Oct-21
9 P14CHM001 Ms. Erum Gull
Naz Theoretical Investigations of
Unimolecular and Bimolecular
Reaction Dynamics in Gas
Phase Dr. Manikandan
Paranjothy CY 03-Nov-21
10 P15ME004 Mr. Sumit
Mahajan Design and development of
SMAW electrode coatings for
dissimilar metal welds in USC
power plants Dr. Rahul
Chhibber ME 10-Nov-21
11 P16PH002 Mr. Ram Milan
Sahani Metal Oxide Nanostructures
& Composites for Ionizing
Radiation Detection and
Measurement Dr. Ambesh Dixit, PH 23-Nov-21
Ph.D. Thesis Defense
The following Ph.D. Students defended their theses successfully during this 2021-22 year (01 April 2021 to 31 March 
2022):
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No. Roll No. Name Thesis Title Supervisor Department Thesis
Defense Date
12 P16CY002 Mr. Urgunde
Ajay
Bhimashankar Fabrication of Nanostructured
Electrodes for Bio-sensing
and Energy Applications
using Ni-Co Functional Inks Dr. Ritu Gupta Chemistry 23-Nov-21
13 P15MA002 Mr. Rohit
Kumar Renormalizations of Unimodal
and Bimodal Maps with Low
Smoothness Dr. V.V.M.S.
Chandramouli Mathematics 30-Nov-21
14 P15BL001 Mr. Ishan
Agrawal Dopamine Induces Functional
Extracellular Traps in
Microglia Dr. Sushmita Jha BIoscience 20-Dec-21
and Bio
engineeing
15 P15PH003 Ms. Khushboo
Dixit A study of Quantum
Mechanical aspects in
Neutrino Oscillations Dr. Ashutosh
Kumar Alok Physics 27-Dec-21
16 P14BS004 Ms. Manju
Kumari Facilitative Effect of EEG
Neurofeedback on Social
Cognition through Mu
Suppression Dr. Ankita Sharma BISS 25-Jan-22
17 P16CS003 Ms. Shreya
Goyal Fine Grained Feature
Representation using
Computer Vision Techniques
for Understanding Indoor
Space Dr Chiranjoy
Chattopadhyay,
Dr Gaurav
Bhatnagar Computer 27-Jan-22
Science and
Engineering,
18 P14BS001 Mr. Alankar
Agarwal Analysis of Lattice Boltzmann
Method for Turbulent Flow
Simulation on Multi-core GPU
Architecture Dr. B. Ravindra,
Dr. Akshay
Prakash (IIT
Kharagpur) Enrolled 18-Feb-22
in Focus
Group - BISS
associated
with
Mechanical
Engineering
19 P14CS002 Mr. Ravi
Sharma A Multi Objective Beacon
Placement Strategy for 3D
Point Cloud Representation
of Indoor Environments Dr.
Venkataramana
Badarla (IIT
Tirupati) Computer 30-Mar-22
Science and
Engineering,
A Workshop on New Education Policy 2020 and Action Points for IITs has been organized by IIT Jodhpur 
on 15th September 2021.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No. MoU / Agreement
signed with Date of
signing Objective Duration Ending
Date of
MoU
1 Mahindra & Mahindra
Ltd. Automotive and
Farm Equipment
Sectors Mumbai 26.11.2014 Mutual desire to expand Industry Academia
Cooperation by offering an opportunity to
the Faculty Members and Students at IITJ to
get industry experience and to the senior
professionals of M&M to get academic
experience. 3 years 25.11.2017
2 TATA Motors, Mumbai 01.08.2014 Mutual desire to expand Industry-Academia
Cooperation by offering as opportunity to
the faculty members and students at IITJ to
get industry experience and to the senior
professionals of TML to get academic
experience. 3 years 31.07.2017
3 Larsen & Toubro,
Mumbai 06.01.2015 Mutual desire to expand Industry-Academia
Cooperation by offering as opportunity
to the faculty members and students at
IITJ to get industry experience and to the
senior professionals of L&T to get academic
experience. 5 years 05.01.2020
4 The TATA Power
Company Ltd. Mumbai 15.01.2015 • Mutually help in continually upgrading
the curriculum and designing the
courses of the Program.
• Help students in designing and
realizing the project objectives that are
of mutual interest.
5 TATA Consultancy
Services Ltd. and IIT
Jodhpur 15.01.2015 • Exchange of Scholars, Researchers and
Students for research through inbound
and outbound Sabbaticals.
• Exchange and co-authoring of scholarly
and research publications and other
information in areas of interest to both
parties.
6 Indian Institute of
Science, Bangalore 30.03.2015 To Promote and enhance collaborative
research in the areas of Renewable Energy
and related fields of research by using the
medium of Faculty Members, Researchers,
Research Students and scientists
associated with the partner institutes. 5 years 29.03.2020
Collaborations - Memoranda of Understanding (MoU)
The following is a list of MoUs signed by IIT Jodhpur with various Institutions/organizations/companies:
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No. MoU / Agreement
signed with Date of
signing Objective Duration Ending
Date of
MoU
7 IIT Rajasthan Jodhpur
and TVS Motor
company Limited, Hosur
(TN) 09.06.2015 5 years 08.06.2020
8 AIIMS Jodhpur and IIT
Jodhpur 10.07.2018 Joint pursuit of education, advancement of
research and product development. Unless it
is mutually
agreed
otherwise.
9 AIIMS Jodhpur and IIT
Jodhpur 06.09.2018 Joint Center for Healthcare Technologies Unless it
is mutually
agreed
otherwise
10 Central Connecticut
State University New
Britain, Connecticut,
USA and IIT Jodhpur 08.10.2018 To implement academic exchange
and cooperation in teaching, research
and training for the advancement and
dissemination of learning hereby affirm
the intent to reach agreement about the
following programs and activities:
• Exchange of faculty and staff
• Exchange of students
• Training and joint research activities
• Exchange of academic materials and
other information 5 years
11 CSIR-CEERI, Pilani 21.01.2019 Based on the principle of reciprocity and
expresses the interest of both Institutions
in exchanging scholars, students, academic
information and materials in the belief that
the research and educational process at
both Institutions will be enhanced and
that mutual understanding between their
respective scholars and students will be
increased by the establishment of such
exchange programs. 5 years 20.01.2024
12 NVIDIA Graphics Private
Limited and IIT Jodhpur 30.01.2019 To establish IITJ-NVIDIA centre for next
generation AI Research (AINEXT)- Artificial
Intelligence 3 years 29.01.2022
13 CSIR-Institute of
Genomics & Integrative
Biology, Delhi 25.02.2019 Collaboration in the areas of mutual interest
which would multidisciplinary scientific,
technological and educational problems of
relevance to the country. 5 years 24.02.2024
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No. MoU / Agreement
signed with Date of
signing Objective Duration Ending
Date of
MoU
14 National Digital Library
of India, a project of
MHRD 26.02.2019 Collaboration to carry out research and
develop a production quality Digital
Representation Generation tool for Bangla
scanned image textual contents. 11 months Jan/20
15 National Coordinating
Institute IIT Delhi (Unnat
Bharat Abhiyan) and
Regional Coordinating
Institute, IIT Jodhpur 06.03.2019 MoU in line with Unnat Bharat Abhiyan,
Ministry of Human Resource Development
16 NARA Institute
of Science and
Technology, National
University Corporation
(NAIST), Japan 04.05.2019 To develop and promote mutual
cooperative relationship in the fields of
Education and Academic Research, and
to promote academic exchanges between
NAIST. 5 years 03.05.2024
17 M/s. Samsung India
Electronics Private
Limited (SIEL) and IIT
Jodhpur 15.05.2019 Carrying out Research & Development
including but not limited to reports,
updates, commentaries, outputs, other
written documents etc. 1 year 14.05.2020
18 Council of Scientific
& Industrial Research
(CSIR), New Delhi 02.08.2019 IITJ and CSIR desire to implement, in the
areas of mutual interest, cooperative
and collaborative activities, which would
address multidisciplinary scientific,
technological and educational problems of
relevance to the country. 5 Years 01.08.2024
19 ANSYS Software Pvt.
Ltd., IIT Jodhpur, and
Entuple Technologies
Pvt. Ltd. 29.08.2019 To promote the Industry-Academic
interaction activities especially in the field
of Electric vehicles, IoT, Antenna Design
and IC design and associated technologies
and to promote research, capability and
technology development in the same area. 3 years 28.08.2022
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No. MoU / Agreement
signed with Date of
signing Objective Duration Ending
Date of
MoU
20 Samsung India
Electronics Private
Limited (SIEL). 12.09.2019
executing
& w.e.f.
16.09.2019 Academic collaboration by way of special
industry-oriented courses, jointly by lIT-
Jodhpur & SIEL, technical talks & industry
expert lectures/demonstrations, minor/
major student projects & student technical
contests at IIT-Jodhpur subject to the
consent of the concerned faculty and
the department in this regard. SIEL will
support running industry-oriented courses
& provide the education to IIT Jodhpur
students as agreeable to IIT-Jodhpur
keeping in forefront the interest of the
students and that for purpose of providing
students, an education as per the need of
the market. 3 years 15.09.2022
21 College of Life
Sciences, Kaohsiung
Medical University,
Taiwan and IIT Jodhpur
(Letter of Intent) 17.10.2019 To Develop Academic and Educational
cooperation and to promote mutual
understanding between the two universities
and further extend the academic and
educational cooperation through following
programs and activities:
• Exchange of Faculty, Researchers and
administrative staf.f
• Exchange of students and developing
study programs.
• Exchange of academic information and
materials
• Implementation of Dual-degree
programs.
• Study abroad programs; joint
educational programs; joint supervision
of PhD Scholars. - 16.10.2020
22 Cognizant Technology
Solutions India Pvt. Ltd.
and IIT Jodhpur 18.12.2019 Research and Development Agreement 3 years 17.12.2022
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No. MoU / Agreement
signed with Date of
signing Objective Duration Ending
Date of
MoU
23 Defence Laboratory
(DRDO) Jodhpur and IIT
Jodhpur 18.12.2019 To Promote relations that mutually benefit
each Institute, this being the primary aim of
R&D and Academic collaboration and S&T
cooperation towards developing new as
well as improved products & technologies
for strategic defence techniques. Shall
remain
in force,
unless it is
mutually
agreed
otherwise.
24 IITJ Technology
Innovation Start-up
Centre 01.01.2020 Promote technology Thought and action;
and prepares needed technical human
resources to meet the technology
challenges of the nation. 5 years 31.12.2025
25 Robosurg Med-Tech
Pvt. Ltd. 16.01.2020 To Provide Research Advisory and conduct
activities related to SSI robotic Project. 5 years
26 PhiMetrics Telecom
Value Added Services
Pvt. Ltd 24.01.2020 MoU for the research project titled “Voice
and Video Analysis” 4 months
27 Oil India Limited 24.01.2020 To collaborate for promotion of Research,
innovation & education and provide a
model for industry-academia partnership 5 years
28 Dayalbagh Educational
Institute Dayalbagh,
Agra & Environtech
Instruments Pvt. Ltd.,
New Delhi 24.01.2020 Development of sensors with IMPRINT
SERB project 3 years
29 Umalaxmi Organics Pvt.
Ltd 24.01.2020 Umalaxmi Organics has expressed its intent
and offer to avail the services of Institute
for consultancy on research methodology
and technical know-how, inputs, guidance
and strategic insights and opportunity to
participate in iron impurity Removal Project. 5 years
30 BlockApps AI Pvt. Ltd.
(Bangalore) 19.02.2020
w.e.f.
01.01.2020 Development of Segmentation Algorithms
for Surveillance and AI-assisted Health
Diagnosis 5 years 31.12.2025
31 Centre for Advanced
Research in Imaging
Neuroscience &
Genomics, New Delhi 07.04.2020 CARING and IITJ desire to implement, in
the arear of mutual intrest, cooperative
and collaborative activities, which would
address multidisciplinary scientific,
technologiasl and educational problems of
relevance to the country. 3 years
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No. MoU / Agreement
signed with Date of
signing Objective Duration Ending
Date of
MoU
32 ISCON Surgicals Ltd.,
Jodhpur 05.05.2020 Transfer of technology titled “An Advanced
Photocatalytic Oxidation Sterilization
System Based on UV-Light and Metal
Oxide Nanoparticles Catalyst to treat N-95
Filtering Face-Mask Respirators for reuse”
developed by IIT Jodhpur. 1 year
33 Kamtech Associates
Pvt. Ltd. 05.05.2020 Transfer of technology titled “An Advanced
Photocatalytic Oxidation Sterilization
System Based on UV-Light and Metal
Oxide Nanoparticles Catalyst to treat N-95
Filtering Face-Mask Respirators for reuse”
developed by IIT Jodhpur. 3 years
34 Chempharm Industries
India Pvt. Ltd. 05.05.2020 Transfer of technology titled “An Advanced
Photocatalytic Oxidation Sterilization
System Based on UV-Light and Metal
Oxide Nanoparticles Catalyst to treat N-95
Filtering Face-Mask Respirators for reuse”
developed by IIT Jodhpur. 1 year
35 Parappadi Technology
Pvt. Ltd. 05.05.2020 Transfer of technology titled “An Advanced
Photocatalytic Oxidation Sterilization
System Based on UV-Light and Metal
Oxide Nanoparticles Catalyst to treat N-95
Filtering Face-Mask Respirators for reuse”
developed by IIT Jodhpur. 1 year
36 Johari Digital
Healthcare Limited 07.05.2020 Transfer of technology titled “An Advanced
Photocatalytic Oxidation Sterilization
System Based on UV-Light and Metal
Oxide Nanoparticles Catalyst to treat N-95
Filtering Face-Mask Respirators for reuse”
developed by IIT Jodhpur. 3 years
37 Zintex Blue Ocean Pvt.
Ltd., Jaipur 16.05.2020 Transfer of technology titled “An Advanced
Photocatalytic Oxidation Sterilization
System Based on UV-Light and Metal
Oxide Nanoparticles Catalyst to treat N-95
Filtering Face-Mask Respirators for reuse”
developed by IIT Jodhpur. 1 year
38 All India Institute of
Medical Sciences,
Nagpur 16.05.2020 Transfer of technology titled “An Advanced
Photocatalytic Oxidation Sterilization
System Based on UV-Light and Metal
Oxide Nanoparticles Catalyst to treat N-95
Filtering Face-Mask Respirators for reuse”
developed by IIT Jodhpur. 1 year
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No. MoU / Agreement
signed with Date of
signing Objective Duration Ending
Date of
MoU
39 TRS Solutions LLP 10.04.2020 Collaborative research in the area of
Artificial Intelligence in Medical imaging to
advance Radiology diagnostic Capabilities.
40 GE India Industrial
Pvt. Ltd. (including
subsidiaries and
affiliates of General
Electric Company,
USA("GE") Evaluating technology, exploring research
opportunities and/or engaging in future
research. 3 years
41 Deakin University,
ABN 56721584203 of
1 Gheringhap Street,
Geelong, Victoria,
Australia 22.01.2020 Sharing of information relevant to potential
collaborative research and development
projects to facilitate an understanding of
each party's expertise, capabilities and
requirements. 3 years
42 Samsung India
Electronics Private Ltd.
and IIT Jodhpur 15.05.2020 Carrying out Research & Development
including but not limited to reports,
updates, commentaries, outputs, other
written documents etc.
43 Brandeis International
Business School,
Brandeis University,
Waltham, Massachusetts 08.08.2020 The principle of reciprocity and expression
of interest for collaboration among both
institution in teaching learning and research
and to explore the promotion of academic
cooperation and exchange might include.
44 All India Institute of
Medical Sciences,
Nagpur 20.08.2020 Promote relations that mutually benefit
each Institute, this being the primary aim
of a true academic collaboration; and S&T
cooperation towards developing devices
for diagnostics and treatment towards
providing improved quality of healthcare. Shall
remain
in force,
unless it is
mutually
agreed
otherwise.
45 Agreement with
L'INSTITUT FRANCAIS
EN INDE (IFI) IFI will provide all necessary support to
IIT Jodhpur to run the French language
classes under the conditions expressly
mentioned below. The sole purpose of
this agreement is the promotion and
enhancement of the French language
in partnership with IIT Jodhpur and its
students and faculty. 1 year
46 NTPC Vidyut Vyapar
Nigam Limited 03.09.2020 To Own, Acquire, Establish, Operate and
Maintain Generating Stations, Transmission
Systems and Distribution Systems. 25 years
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No. MoU / Agreement
signed with Date of
signing Objective Duration Ending
Date of
MoU
47 (Non Disclosure
Agreement) M/s Watsan
Envirotech Private
Limited (CIN U29253
TN2013PT C091052) 01.09.2020 For Improvement of formulations and
performance based on various types of
water alleviations, using different models of
G filters across India. 3 years
48 (Non Disclosure
Agreement) M/s Watsan
Envirotech Private
Limited (CIN U292
53TN20 13PTC 091052) 01.09.2020 For Improvement of formulations and
performance based on various types of
water alleviations, using different models
of G filters, additionally modified with
different variations of carbon/graphite
nanostructures coated and tried on various
substrates other than G filters, for creating
filters and filter mediums 3 years
49 (Non Disclosure
Agreement)
Department of
Information Technology,
Jodhpur and Police
Commissionerate,
Jodhpur 04.09.2020 To set up a City Knowledge and Innovation
cluster in Jodhpur to achieve the objective
of effective and efficient governance. 3 years
50 General Agreement
for Educational and
Scientific cooperation
and Student Exchange
2020-2025 between
Indian Institute of
Technology Jodhpur
and Universite De
Technologie De Troyes,
France 01.09.2020 To provide opportunities for students and
staff to gain global experience, to foster
collaboration among faculty members
in education and research and develop
international academic projection 5 years
51 General Memorandum
of Understating
between The University
of Western Australia 17.09.2020 Objectives are below:
• Exchange of staff
• Joint research activities
• Joint conferences and other academic
meetings Exchange of academic
materials and information Exchange of
students. 5 years
52 Hearthealth
Technologies Private
Limited (HTPL)
Bengaluru 20.10.2020 Collaboration between the parties for Use
of Technologies in Medical Image Analysis,
Diagnosis and Prognosis. 2 years
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No. MoU / Agreement
signed with Date of
signing Objective Duration Ending
Date of
MoU
53 Johari Digital
Healthcare Ltd. 10.11.2020 To promote and facilitate Innovation,
Commercialization and Mentorship of the
Projects undertaken the aegis of JCoE and
find solutions to specific problems in the
area of Medical Devices and Technologies,
wherein each Project undertaken shall
be preceded with a Definitive Agreement
recording the terms and conditions
governing the Project. 3 years
54 Johari Digital
Healthcare Ltd. (JDHL)
and IITJ Technology
Park Jodhpur 11.11.2020 To cooperate for the purpose of
(i) practicing and encouraging technology
transfer and commercialization of
innovations to increase research
related economic growth in regions
country and the overseas,
(ii) identify and seek out joint business
opportunities through national and
international networking, and
(iii) work out a common yearly planning
for activities and Match Making events
to be shared also with local economic
promotion agencies, start-ups
(iv) Leverage the expertise of Knowledge
Partners in Healthcare, Environment
and Livelihood. 3 years
55 MoU reg. Scheme of
Fund for Regeneration
of Traditional Industries
(SFURTI)-between IITJ
as Technical Agency
and Khandi & village
Industries Commission
(KVIC) as Nodal Agency 27.10.2020 signed to implement Scheme of Fund
for Regeneration of Traditional Industries
(SFURTI)-between IITJ as Technical Agency
and Khandi & village Industries Commission
(KVIC) as Nodal Agency 3 years
56 Agreement between
National Research
Lobachevsky State
University of Nizhny
Novgorod, Russia 9.11.2020 Implementation of cooperation in teaching,
academic, student exchange and research,
academic exchange of students (PhD
Students) 5 years
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No. MoU / Agreement
signed with Date of
signing Objective Duration Ending
Date of
MoU
57 Pingala AI Pvt, Ltd.
Noida UP 12.7.2020 To help incubate & accelerate novel
technologies and business ideas by IITJ
start-ups into viable commercial products. 3 years
58 Memorandum of
Understanding LA
Trobe University and IIT
Jodhpur 02.12.2020 To engage with each other in a program
of co-operation to explore potential
collaborations such as staff and student
exchangwes, projects or programs. 5 years
59 WHIZHACK
TECHNOLOGIES
PRIVATE LIMITED AND
INDIAN INSTITUTE
OF TECHNOLOGY
JODHPUR 09.12.2020 To encourage and promote cooperation in
the fields of Cyber Security and IoT (Interest
of Things) for developing jointly branded
Advocacy, Training programs and Product
Development. 3 years
60 Multi Institutional
MoU between (Meity)
IIT Bombay and IIT
Jodhpur & other IITs • To provide a state-of-the-art
experimental research faculty to all
the program participants (as well as
participants from other academic
institutes and the industry) to carry out
experimentation of their research ideas,
and trials of then subsystems they are
building as part of the program.
• To provide a common platform for
exchange of ideas, knowledge
sharing etc. by organizing workshops,
conclaves and training sessions for
participants of the programs and also
from other educational institutes in the
country.
• To serve as a resource center for
coordination of all the activities with the
stake holders of the multi-institutional
project.
• To monitor progress towards
completion of the deliverables
proposed by the collaborations in their
respective institute’s proposals and
achievement of the overall project
objectives. 1 year
61 Department of
Information Technology
& Communication, Govt.
of Raj. AND IIT Jodhpur 04.12.2020 To promote Start-up ecosystem in the State
of Rajasthan by partnering with DoIT & C
by leveraging its extensive experience and
resources for the promotion of start-ups. 3 years
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No. MoU / Agreement
signed with Date of
signing Objective Duration Ending
Date of
MoU
62 Deakin UniversityABN
56721584203 of 1
Gheringhap Street,
Geelong, Victoria,
Australia and IIT
Jodhpur 21.10.2020 5 years
63 Student Exchange
Agreement between
Indian Institute of
Technology Jodhpur
and Ecole Pour
L'Informatique ET Les
Techniques Avances,
France 12.12.2020 5 years
64 Memorandum of
Understanding for
Academic Collaboration
between EPITA, School
of Engineering &
Computer Science,
France and IIT Jodhpur 12.12.2020 To establish a cooperative relationship
with the aim of developing and fostering
academic links between the institutes. 5 years
65 Memorandum Of
Understanding (MOU) is
Made on this 6th day of
January 2021 06.01.2021 Scholar lab Foundation a registered Not
For profit company under Section 8 (1) of
The Companies act 2013
66 Porte Automations
Private Ltd. 29.05.2020 Plasma Based Sterilizing system for Indoor
Air Quality to fight COVID-19 6 months
67 Pyrotech Electronics
Pvt. Ltd. (Unit-1) 10.06.2020 Transfer of technology titled "An Advanced
Photocatalytic Oxidation Sterlization
System Based on UV-Light and Metal
Oxide Nanoparticles Catalyst to treat N95
Filtering Face-Mask Respirators for reuse"
developed by IIT Jodhpur 1 years
68 NACL Industries Limited 10.06.2020 Wheras Licensor has developed an
advanced Photocatalytic Oxidation
Sterilization System based on UV-light and
metal oxide Nanoparticles Catalyst to treat
N95 Filtering Face-mask Respirators and
other accessories for reuse (Technology) bu
healthcare workers for protection from air
born transmissions as in diseases such as,
COVID-19, SARS CoV and other Influenzas. 3 years
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No. MoU / Agreement
signed with Date of
signing Objective Duration Ending
Date of
MoU
69 Police Commissionerate
Jodhpur, Abhay
Command & Control
Center 04.09.2020 IIT Jodhpur is in process to set up a City
Knowledge and Innovation a cluster
in Jodhpur to achieve the objective
of effective and efficient governance,
following are the targets. (i) Waste Water
Management (ii) AI based Innovation in
Public Services (iii) Environment Pollution
Mitigation 3 years
70 IITJ and NIRDPR 15.09.2020 The MoU is based on the principle of
reciprocity and expresses the intrest of
collaboration among both Institutions in
1. Technology Development & Translation
2. Exchange of academic information and
materials 3. Faculty and Student exchange
4. Infrastructure sharing 5 years
71 Jai Narayan Vyas
University, Jodhpur 05.11.2020 To share the facility and expertise related to
Bioscience available and to explore, extend
and strengthen the functional collaboration
between the two Institutes in the areas of
bioscience related research.
72 MSME Technology
Centre Bhiwadi 24.12.2020 The objective of this Memorandum of
Understanding is to provide a formal basis
for interaction between MSME Technology
Centre Bhiwadi to enhance collaboration
in Engineering, production and research
areas for Micro, Small and Medium
Enterprises (MSMEs). 3 years
73 Universite
Polytechnique Hauts-
de-France, UPHF and
IIT Jodhpur 28.01.2021 This master agreement expresses the
parties' will to collaborated in the fields
of research and enhancement of its
results, education and training and to thus
contribute to disseminate knowledge and
culture. 5 years
74 TATA CONSULTANCY
SERVICES LTD. AND IIT
JODHPUR 18.02.2021 To promote cooperation in areas of mutual
interest for the benefit of both institutions. 7 years
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No. MoU / Agreement
signed with Date of
signing Objective Duration Ending
Date of
MoU
75 IIT KHARAGPUR for
Installation and Support
of ERP System 04.02.2021 To install the ERP software developed by
Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur
into server / system of First Party and make
necessary customization by localized team
of First Party for day-to-day use of the
institute and making policy decisions by
competent authority of the institute. 3 years
76 Dr. Sarvepalli
Radhakrishan Rajasthan
Ayurved University,
Jodhpur 24.02.2021 The Parties are interesetd in exploring the
possibility of establishing a collaborative
relationship, to conduct relevant activities
aligned to their respective research
interests and expertise.
77 License Agreement
between Confederation
of Indian Industry and
IIT Jodhpur 06.01.2021 A. The Parties are desirous of working
together to create, publish and provide
online courses on diverse subjects
for enhancing employability to the
Subscribers/Authorised Users i.e.,
students professionals. B. To facilitate
working together and provide online
courses to public at large, both the parties
have agreed to abide by the terms and
conditions as contained in this Agreement. 12 Months
78 Rajasthan State
Industrial Development
and Investment
Corporation Ltd. 05.10.2021 2 years
79 Wiley India Private
Limited 17.08.2021
80 Agriculture University,
Jodhpur 06.12.2021 5 years
81 Siemens Software
(India) Private Limited 24.09.2021 Development of affordable and efficient
technological solutions/products for healthcare
especially in the areas of point-of care devices,
IoT based devices, remote healthcare, medical
implants, diagnostics, therapeutics, medical
devices AI for healthcare, rehabilitation
engineering and assistive technology, medical
waste management etc. This will not only help
to suffice the unmet technological need in
the healthcare sector but will reduce import
dependence and make the country self-reliant. 1 year
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No. MoU / Agreement
signed with Date of
signing Objective Duration Ending
Date of
MoU
82 Mai Bharat 14.05.2020
83 Samsung India
Electronics Private
Limited 24.02.2021
84 Institut Polytechnique
De Grenoble 01.05.2021
85 National Law University,
AIIMS Jodhpur and IIT
Jodhpur
86 Power purchase
agreement between
NTPC Vidyut Vyapar
Nigam Limited and IIT
Jodhpur 17.12.2021
87 MoU between The
University at Albany,
State University of
New York, USA and IIT
Jodhpur 19.05.2022 This Agreement represents the entire
agreement between the parties and
supersedes all prior negotiations,
representations or agreements, either
written or oral. 3 years
88 The University at
Albany, State of New
York, USA and IIT
Jodhpur (Deptt. of
CS&E) 19.05.2022 This Agreement represents the entire
agreement between the parties and
supersedes all prior negotiations,
representations or agreements, either
written or oral. 5 years
89 The University at
Albany, State of New
York, USA and IIT
Jodhpur (Deptt. of
Electrical Engineering) 19.05.2022 This Agreement represents the entire
agreement between the parties and
superseds all prior negotiations,
representations or agreements, either
written or oral. 5 years
90 MoU between The
University at Albany,
State of New York, USA
and IIT Jodhpur (SME) 19.05.2022 This Agreement represents the entire
agreement between the parties and
supersedes all prior negotiations,
representations or agreements, either
written or oral. 5 years
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No. MoU / Agreement
signed with Date of
signing Objective Duration Ending
Date of
MoU
91 Co-operation
Agreement for joint
Multi-institutional
International Education,
(among University
at Buffalo (The State
University of New York),
IIT Delhi, IIT Kanpur,
IIT Bombay, IIT(BHU)
Varanasi and Ashoka
University Sonipat
Research, and Training 17.05.2022 The general objective of this agreement
is to establish a multiparty collaborative
framework for long-term multi-institutional
and international collaboration in
educational and research fields that are
compatible with the orientation and mission
of each institution 5 years
92 Agreement for a
Joint PhD Degree
Program (JPD) between
University at Buffalo 17.05.2022 5 years
93 Electronic Industries
Association of India 27.09.2021 A. The Parties are desirous of working
together to create, publish and provide
online courses on diverse subjects
for enhancing employability to the
Subscribers/Authorised Users i.e. students
professionals. B. To facilitate working
together and provide online courses
to public at large, both the parties
have agreed to abide by the terms and
conditions as contained in this Agreement. 3 years
94 Shivani Scientific
Industries Ltd 16-06-2022 Co Creating, Design Thinking and
Innovation for Various Enterprises Open
Innovation Cohorts engaging Faculty and
Students, Research and Development
of Product PoCs, Pilots and Scale Ups,
Writing joint projects for third party funding,
Educational Activities including but not
limited to course/fractal teaching, co-
teaching courses, Co-advising students
on thesis and projects, and other mutually
agreeable educational activities. 5 Years 15-06-2027
95 Sharman Foundation 25-04-2022 To provide educational opportunities to
talented students to fulfill their career goals
by providing scholarships.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Research
Introduction to the activities 
of the Office of R&D
The Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur lays a strong 
emphasis on research projects including Sponsored 
Research projects, Consultancy, Fellowship, Award 
Money and Conference & Workshops etc. The Office 
of Research & Development is specifically set up in 
the Institute to provide specialized administrative and 
managerial support for the operation of Sponsored 
Research Projects, Consultancy projects and other 
related R&D activities. The institute is setting up many 
modern laboratories and continuously supporting 
infrastructure through these R&D projects.
Major R&D activities including administrative 
and accounting support are:
1.	
Sponsored Research Projects, Consultancy 
projects and other projects which includes overall 
administrative support in accomplishing targets as 
defined in the projects. Human resource support 
is also provided by the Office of R&D by way of 
recruitment and establishment matters of project 
staff including project funded JRF/SRF/PDF.
2. The Office of R&D maintains various project funds 
and generates resources for its own operation 
and for further development of research activities 
and to provide support to faculty members, 
departments, schools, centers. Some projects are 
also operational for various online educational 
programs for departments / schools. Funding is 
being supported through project funds and by way 
of creation and management of DDF/CDF/SDF.
3. The Institute encourages faculty members by 
providing research initiation grants (Seed Grant
projects) for new faculty members during the first 
two years of their joining. Funding support upto Rs. 
25 Lakhs is provided under the project. It helps in 
setting up laboratories and research initiation.
4. The Office of R&D plays a pivotal role in 
administration of National and International 
Conferences, Workshops and Seminars etc 
which are being organized in the Institute. The 
Office provides support in maintaining financial 
transactions, receiving sponsorship, account 
maintenance and utilization certificate etc.
5. The Office of R&D is coordinating the activities 
of Institute IP Management Group and providing 
administrative support to the Inventors in filing of 
Intellectual Property Rights applications. The Office 
of R&D is also coordinating with institute empaneled 
IP attorneys.
6. The Office of R&D is coordinating the activities 
of Technology/Knowledge Transfer Group and 
providing support through execution of agreements 
between the Institute and Industry / external 
agencies.
7.	
A separate account is being created through 
overhead contributions made by the Project 
Investigators as a Professional Development 
Account (PDA); PDA provides the flexibility to the 
PIs for their research and professional related 
expenditure. The Office of R&D is maintaining the 
Professional Development Account of all faculty 
members.
8. The Office of R&D is providing support through 
Loan / Advance from R&D Overhead against the 
sanctioned grant to the PIs. The office is also 
providing support in procurement through project 
funds.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S. No. Name of Faculty Title of Project
1 Dr. Raviraj Vankayala,
Assistant Professor, Department of
Bioscience & Bioengineering Near Infrared Light Activatable Erythrocyte Membrane
Coated Black Phosphorous Nanosheets for Targeted
Bioimaging and Photo-Chemotherapy of Breast Cancer Cells
2 Dr. Nipun Arora,
Assistant Professor, Department of
Mechanical Engineering Role of Passive Deformation on the Aerodynamic
Performance of a Flexible Flapping Wing
3 Dr. Debasis Das,
Assistant Professor
Department of Computer Science &
Engineering Secure Communication and Searching System for Vehicular
Cloud Computing
4 Dr Moumita Mandal,
Assistant Professor, Department of
Mathematics Super convergence Results for Integro- Differential Initial and
Boundary Value Problems by Spectral Projection Methods
S. No. Category of Award Name of Faculty
1 Senior Researcher Award
(Engineering) Prof. Richa Singh, Professor, Department of Computer Science &
Engineering
2 Senior Researcher Award
(Humanities) Dr. Vidya Sarveswaran
Associate Professor, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
3 Young Researcher Award
(Engineering) Dr. Raviraj Vankayala
Assistant Professor, Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
4 Young Researcher Award
(Science) Dr. Ritu Gupta
Associate Professor, Department of Chemistry
5 Young Researcher Award
(Humanities) Dr. Farhat Naz
Assistant Professor, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
9. Issuances of Invoices to various funding agencies 
as well as sponsoring agencies.
10. The Office of R&D is providing support for 
International research and collaboration through it’s 
new scheme namely International Research Mobility 
Grant with financial grant upto Rs. 10 Lakh to the 
young faculty members after following a rigorous two 
stage peer review process for selection of projects.
11. Supporting Institute Awards (Research Excellence, 
Meritorious Staff etc.) through R&D overhead
12. Management of online portals of PFMS / GeM / 
Bharatkosh etc. for project related activities
New Initiatives taken by the Office during 
the FY 2021-22
1.	
The Office of R&D has empanelled four reputed 
and expert IP Attorneys to support inventors in the 
Filing of Patents, Design, Copyright etc :
a. 
Anjan Sen & Associates, Patent & Trade Mark 
Attorneys
b. Lakshmikumaran & Sridharan
c. S. Majumdar & Co. Patent & Trademark Attorney
d. Aumirah IP (Adastra IP Private Limited)
2. 
The Office of R&D has also launched a new scheme 
namely International Research Mobility Grant and 
provides this grant to young faculty members after 
following a rigorous two stage peer review process 
for selection of projects. This scheme will support 
the faculty members and increase the collaboration 
with International level reputed researchers. During 
the Financial Year IRMG awarded to following 
faculty members :
3. 
The Office of R&D is supporting and awarding Institute Research Excellence Award on the occasion of Institute 
Foundation Day, during the Financial Year 2021-22 the award has been given to following faculty members :
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

4. 
The Office of R&D has prepared the guidelines 
for Creation of Department / Centre / School 
Development Fund and rationalization of overhead.
5. 
The Office of R&D has launched the General 
Information on R&D Booklet which contains all the 
basic information and norms related to R&D.
Graphical presentation of R&D Projects
1.	
Status of Ongoing R&D Projects
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Apart from the above projects
1.	

The Institute has supported 31 seed grant projects worth Rs. 6.10 Crores sanctioned grant during 
Financial Year 2021-22.
2. The Institute has awarded 4 International Research Mobility Grant projects during the Financial 
Year 2021-22.
Note on Patents
A. Patents Granted to IIT Jodhpur during F.Y. 2021-22
1.	
Patent Title : Automatic Speech Generation
Patent Number: 380040 
Patent Application No. : 201911035856
Applicant: 
1. IIT Jodhpur 2. AIIMS Jodhpur
Inventors: 
Dr. Sumit Kalra, Assistant Professor, Department of CSE, IIT Jodhpur
Dr. Arpit Khandelwal Assistant Professor, Department of Electrical
Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
Dr. Amit Goyal, Dr. Abhinav Dixit and Dr. Nithin Prakasan Nair from AIIMS 
Jodhpur
Date of Filing: 05.09.2019
Date of Published: 01.11.2019
Date of Grant: 26.10.2021
Brief Description: Various preordained situations result in a disease or injury to people and 
deprive them of their natural ability to communicate verbally. The diseases which affect the voice 
and language of people may include congenital impairments, such as cerebral palsy, intellectual 
impairment and autism, and acquired conditions, such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and 
Parkinson’s disease. The present subject matter describes methods and systems for automatically 
generating speech which will be language-independent and facilitate communication between 
people with speech impairments and others. In an example implementation, the consonant 
and the vowel can be from Hindi language phonetics. A phonetic is assigned to the received 
electrical signals based on the comparison. An audio signal is generated by an audio transmitter 
corresponding to the assigned phonetic and based on trained data associated with vocal 
characteristics stored in a machine learning unit. The generation of the audio signals according to 
the phonetic having combination of vowels and consonants leads to the generation of speech and 
enables the people to audibly communicate with other people using gestures only. The speech 
synthesis technique of the present subject matter uses phonetics, and therefore the speech 
generation is independent of any language.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

2. Patent Title : Metal Nanoparticles Intercalated Clay for Solvent Free Hydrogenation of Squalene Into Squalane
Patent Number: 384054 Patent Application No. : 201611009866
Applicant: 1. IIT Jodhpur 2. Dr. Rakesh K Sharma 3. Vineet Kumar Soni
Inventors: Dr. Rakesh K Sharma, Associate Professor, Department of Chemistry, IIT Jodhpur
Mr. Vineet Kumar Soni, Research Associate Department of Chemistry
Date of Filing: 21.03.2016
Date of Published: 26.01.2018
Date of Grant: 10.12.2021
Brief Description: The patent is about the innovation on application of modified Rajasthani Clay in chemical 
transformations for converting squalane, which is produced by microalgae to squalene which is used as biofuel and 
value-added products for cosmetic, nutraceutical, pharmaceutical industries, and condom lubricants. The Squalane 
is a natural product which is found in shark liver and millions of sharks are killed every year to obtain this chemical. 
This discovery could save the eco-system by saving sharks and also fulfill the needs of human beings with large 
scale production.
The patent includes process innovation to develop sub-nanometer-sized palladium particles in the layers of clay. 
The hydrogenation reaction occurs in solvent free condition to give pure saturated hydrocarbon (squalane) without 
any toxic aromatics and side products. The catalyst was reusable more hundred cycles without loss of performance.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

B. Patent Filed by IIT Jodhpur during F.Y. 2021-22
1.	
Patent Title : Teeth Holder Assembly for Jaw Rehabilitation Devices and Orally Intercepted Devices
Patent Application No. : 202211012504
Date of filing: 08.03.2022
Applicant: Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
1.	
Dr. Kaushal A Desai, Associate Professor Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur.
2. Mr. Priyanshu Raj Shrivastava, M.Tech. Mechanical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur.
3. Dr. Ankita Chugh, Assistant Professor, Department of Dentistry, AIIMS Jodhpur.
2. Patent Title : Human Jaw Path Tracing Planar Mechanism for Jaw Rehabilitation Device
Patent Application No. : 202211012501
Date of filing: 08.03.2022
Applicant: Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
1.	
Dr. Kaushal A Desai, Associate Professor Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur.
2. Mr. Priyanshu Raj Shrivastava, M.Tech. Mechanical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur.
3. Patent Title : A Portable, Non-Invasive and Lightweight System for Stimulation Over Skin Surface
Patent Application No. : 202211012866
Date of filing: 09.03.2022
Applicant: Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
1.	
Dr. Kaushal A Desai, Associate Professor Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur.
2. Mr. Pratik C Sorathiya, JRF, Mechanical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
3. Dr. Prathamesh H Kamble, Assistant Professor, Department of Physiology, AIIMS Nagpur
C. Patent Published during F.Y. 2021-22 filed by IIT Jodhpur
1.	
Patent Title : A Hydrogen-Annealed Bimetallic Oxide And Implementations Thereof
Patent Application No. : 201911031662
Date of filing: 05.08.2019
Date of published: 27.08.2021
Applicant: Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
1.	
Dr. Rakesh Kumar Sharma, Associate Professor, Department of Chemistry, IIT Jodhpur.
2. Ms. Devika Laishram, PhD Student, Department of Chemistry, IIT Jodhpur.
3. Mr. Kiran Prakash Shejale, PhD Student, Department of Chemistry, IIT Jodhpur.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Events
Dr. B. R. Ambedkar Jayanti
14 April 2021
Bharat Ratna Dr. B. R. Ambedkar fought 
for social justice, equality, political and 
civil rights, and was the Chief Architect of 
the Indian Constitution. On the occasion 
of his 130th Birth Anniversary this 14th 
of April, the Committee for Celebration 
of Commemorative Days (CCCD) 
organized an Essay-Writing Competition 
on Transformative Constitutionalism and 
Social Justice (in English and Hindi).
Themes of submission included:
1. Transformative Constitutionalism
2. Social Justice and Civil Rights
Celebration of National Festivals and Observance of 
Days of National Importance
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Winning Entries (English)
Constitutional Morality: Guiding Light in these times 
of Darkness
Milind Sengupta
Transformative Constitutionalism - A Tool for 
Conceptualizing Social Justice
Kopal Rastogi
Change and Simultaneous Acceptance is the Only 
Constant
World Creativity & Innovation Day
21 April 2021
IIT Jodhpur organized a small Virtual Exhibition on Art and Innovation on 23 April 2021 as a part of the celebrations 
of World Creativity & Innovation Day (April 21). The gallery showcased innovations, photography and art entries 
submitted by students, faculty and family members.
3D Virtual Information
11 May 2021
National Technology Day is celebrated on May 11 
every year to highlight the achievements of engineers 
and scientists, and marks the anniversary of the day 
in 1998 when India achieved a major technological 
breakthrough by successfully carrying out nuclear tests 
at Pokhran, Rajasthan. As the second wave of Covid-19
continues to ravage across the country, IIT Jodhpur 
organized National Technology Day celebrations across 
May and June 2021 through an Invited Talk by Dr. R. 
Chidambaram (June 21, 2021) and a Panel Discussion 
(May 21, 2021).
On Jun 21, 2021, the CCCD organized an invited talk 
by Dr. R. Chidambaram, Chairman, Board of Governors
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

of IIT Jodhpur, and former Principal Scientific Adviser 
to the Government of India, who coordinated the 
nation’s nuclear weapons program during the Pokhran 
tests. The talk was on ‘The Many Dimensions of 
National Security’ and was attended by 350+ students 
and professionals from IIT Jodhpur and educational 
institutions across Rajasthan and beyond.
Earlier, a Panel Discussion on the theme of Technology 
& Management Interventions against Covid-19 was held 
on May 21, 2021 where role of technology (in detection, 
prevention, cure, data analyses, future projections), 
management (logistics - availability of medicines, 
infrastructure, patient management in hospitals,
therapeutics), social media (and its impact), and survival 
‘kits’ (preventive measures, exercises, yoga) were 
discussed. The panelists included:
•

Dr Kuldeep Singh, Dean (Academics), Professor and 
Head, Department of Pediatrics, AIIMS Jodhpur
•

Dr Anil Kumar Tiwari, Associate Professor, 
Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
•

Dr Krishna Kumar Balaraman, Head, School of 
Management and Entrepreneurship, IIT Jodhpur
•

Dr Suman Kundu, Assistant Professor, Department 
of Computer Science & Engineering, & Head (CC), 
IIT Jodhpur
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

International Day of Yoga
21 June 2021
IIT Jodhpur celebrated International Day of Yoga 2021 
with enthusiasm jointly with students, staff and faculty 
members. Major activities as a part of this program 
included (i) Yoga Challenge (ii) Dissemination of Yoga-
related awareness information.
(i) IDY2021 Yoga Challenge

The Board of Student Sports at IIT Jodhpur 
organized a Yoga Challenge for all students, faculty 
and staff members. The contest invited video 
submissions of participants doing Yogasanas with 
points assigned proportion to the difficulty of the 
asanas. Several students submitted entries in the 
contest and a leaderboard was maintained on the 
@iitjodhpursports Instagram Channel. Winners were 
announced on 21 June 2021, and would receive 
e-certificates.
Yoga Challenge 2021 Winners
First Prize (88 points)
Nilesh (B20ME050)

Second Prize (tied between 4 participants 
with 84 points)
Kolli Sumaja (M20CI013)
Shubha Dhami (B18EE061)
Aakash Saplya (B20BB052)
Satyam Soni (B20CI039)
Third Prize (83 points)
Indu Gupta (P20MT005)
(ii) 
Dissemination of Yoga-related awareness 
information

While the Board of Student Sports continued 
to share Yoga-related awareness over social 
media over the weeks leading up to 21 June, 
the information on Common Yoga Protocol and 
information available on https://yoga.ayush.gov.in/ 
was shared with IIT Jodhpur.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

75th 
Independence 
Day
15 August 2021
The 75th Independence Day 
of the country was celebrated 
in mixed mode on 15 August 
2021 with a colorful blend of 
technical and cultural pre-
events, and a solemn virtual 
gathering to join the flag 
hoisting, Independence Day 
Address by the Director, and 
cultural performances. This 
year's program included:
•

Flag Hoisting and National 
Anthem (Live-streamed 
from Admin Block)
•

Independence Day 
Address by the Director, 
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury 
(Boardroom)
•

Cultural Performances 
by Students of IITJ and 
KV, & Faculty and Staff 
Members
•

Inauguration of an Eco-
friendly Roof as a part of 
the Campus Sustainability 
Project coordinated by 
CETSD in collaboration 
with OIE
•

Tree Plantation (near new 
Workshop building)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Independence Day Pre-Events
•

To celebrate the emergence of science & technology in Independent India, the Board of Cocurricular 
Affairs organized two tech contests:
•
Tech Ideation Competition: Idea for India (Idea of a new technology or product for self-reliant India)
•
App to Bridge the Gap (Concept of an app that can empower the people)
•

Photo Contest on 'Art & Technology' and Video Contest on 'Emergence of science & technology in 
Independent India' was organized for Faculty and Staff Members on the topic ‘Art & Technology’.
•

Article Writing Competition by PHEME - Newsletter Club and Board of Literary Affairs was organized for 
Students on the themes:
1.	

What, according to you, is the most important technological breakthrough after independence and 
why?
2. Is India really independent when it comes to scientific evolution?
3. 
How has scientific freedom and a constructive environment post independence resulted in a more 
self reliant India ?
•

Drawing, Singing, Poetry, Dance, Musical Instrument Competitions for Campus children were organized 
by the Office of Students.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

IIT Jodhpur celebrated Teachers’ Day 2021 through 
a range of academic and cultural events on 04-05 
September 2021. A Workshop on Next-Generation 
Education Technology was organized on Saturday, 
04 September by the EdTech vertical of the Institute, 
with invited speakers and national participation. 
On Sunday, 05 September, a spectacular program 
was organized by the Academic and Co-curricular 
Activity Council (ACAC) and the Student Activity 
Council (SAC) in offline mode to pay tribute to all the 
teachers. The program was held in blended mode 
where all staff and faculty members and students 
present on campus joined the event in person in the 
Lecture Hall Building. Since the Covid pandemic has 
started, this was the first event that was celebrated 
in physical mode.
The program began with welcoming the faculty 
members in Indian tradition, followed by lamp 
lighting by senior professors, Saraswati Vandana, 
and a Speech on Dr. Radhakrishnan by Ph.D.
Student Amar Chouhan. The event included an 
exciting cultural show including dance, drama and 
musical performances. The students also organized 
an entertaining surprise quiz for faculty members.
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur, 
delivered an address to all students and faculty 
members on this occasion. The student council 
felicitated all faculty members with plants. The event 
concluded with a vote of thanks by Lokesh Panwar, 
General Secretary, ACAC.
05 September 2021
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

15 September 2021
As a part of the Engineer's Day Celebrations 2021, the NEP Action Committee of the Institute organized a workshop 
on New Education Policy 2020 and Action Points for IITs on 15 September 2021.
Universal high-quality education is important for developing and maximizing talents and resources for the good of 
the individual and society. With the quickly changing employment landscape and global ecosystem, education must 
build character, enable learners to be ethical, rational, compassionate, and caring, while at the same time prepare 
them for gainful, fulfilling employment. The National Education Policy 2020 (NEP 2020) combines the futuristic vision 
for the country with its glorious past. The NEP 2020 encourages a multidimensional skillset, builds upon traditions 
and values, focuses on cultural-linguistic diversity and different backgrounds, and emphasizes breaking the 
disciplinary boundaries and pedagogical change for cognitive-affective-life skill development. July 2021 is marked 
as one year of National Education Policy; a nationwide celebration rejoiced and re-affirmed the commitment toward 
the reformation suggested in the policy.
The workshop included addresses by eminent invited speakers:
•
Sh. Rakesh Ranjan, Additional Secretary, Technical Education, Ministry of Education
•
Prof. R. K. Shevgaonkar, Professor Emeritus, IIT Bombay and Former Director, IIT Delhi
•
Prof. Sarit Kumar Das, Institute Chair Professor, IIT Madras and Former Director, IIT Ropar
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Gandhi Jayanti
02 October 2021
Gandhi Jayanti was celebrated on 02 October 2021 jointly by CCCD and the Student Senate. The event was 
organized in hybrid mode in LHB 110 of the IIT Jodhpur Campus.
The program was as follows:
Address by the Director
Speech on Gandhi Jayanti by Pranav Goswami (B20CS025)
Invited talk by Dr. Subodh Kerkar
Dr. Subodh Kerkar is a medical practitioner, installation artist, and activist who uses art to comment on social, 
political, religious, and other issues. His artwork sits at the intersection of politics and history. Dr. Subodh Kerkar 
had always been connected with Mahatma Gandhi from his childhood. He had the opportunity to grow up in the 
company of Gandhians including Jnanpith Awardee and Padma Bhushan Ravindra Kelekar, Dada Dharmadhikari, 
and Justice Chandrashekhar Dharmadhikari amongst others. For the last 6 years, he has been an ardent student of 
Mahatma Gandhi’s life and teachings and has created a number of works based on the Mahatma.
Cultural Performances
•
Bhajan by Harisharan R (M21ID005)
•

Dance performance by Ek Bharat Shreshthh Bharat, Ritish (B20BB031), Vikram (M20PH027), Khushal Sonawat 
(B19ME037), Ranbir Singh (B19BB035)
•
Musical performances by Harshith Reddy (B20AI018), Pranjal (B20ME081), Harshita Kalani (B20CS019)
The India Quiz was organized by the Quiz Club of IITJ.
National Education Day
11 November 2021
India marks National Education Day on November 11 to memorialize the birthday of Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, the 
first Minister for Education in India. The CCCD, in association with the EdTech Vertical and the Institute Publications 
Committee, celebrated National Education Day 2021 with the following events.
EdTech Talk on “Making Virtual Reality Real for K12 Education” by Mr. Aditya Vishwanath (CEO, Inspirit and Knight-
Hennessy Scholar/PhD Candidate at Stanford University) on 12 November 2021 at 6:30 PM [organized by EdTech 
Vertical, CETSD]
About the Speaker
Aditya co-founded Inspirit with the aim to support global access to immersive, interactive, and collaborative learning 
experiences. He is a Knight-Hennessy scholar and PhD candidate at Stanford University. Previously, he worked with 
the Google Education team where he explored strategies to integrate low-cost virtual reality toolkits into curriculum, 
and was a three-time recipient of the President’s Undergraduate Research Award at Georgia Tech. Before Inspirit, 
he co-founded MakerGhat, a makerspace and incubator network for high-school students.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Student Contests:
Extempore Competition on “How do you envision the future of education?”
11 November 2021 / 7:00 - 8:00 PM / LHB 308
(2 min per participant; Top three winners receive e-certificates)
Essay/Article Writing Contest on “The Future of Education”
[Submission Deadline: 19 November 2021]
Sub-themes include, but are not limited to,
•
Diversity and Inclusion in Engineering Education
•
AI-enabled Education
•
Multilingual Education
•
K-12 STEM Education
•
Gamification in Education
Top three winners received e-certificates. The top (one) entry was to be considered for inclusion in the upcoming 
issue of Techscape: The Science, Technology and Education Journal (Convocation Issue)
Selected entry for Techscape (Convocation Issue) - by Stuti Aswani
Constitution Day
26 November 2021
Constitution Day, also known as ‘Samvidhan Divas’, is celebrated in our country on 26th November every year to 
commemorate the adoption of the Constitution of India. On 26th November 1949, the Constituent Assembly of India 
adopted the Constitution of India, which came into effect from 26th January 1950.
The Hon’ble President of India led the celebrations of Constitution Day live from the Central Hall of Parliament on 
26 November 2021 from 11:00 AM onwards. The live telecast was available on Sansad TV/DD/other channels and 
online portals.
All were invited to actively participate at:
•
Portal for reading Preamble to the Constitution in 23 Languages (http://readpreamble.nic.in)
•
Portal for Online Quiz on Constitutional Democracy (https://constitutionquiz.nic.in)
Constitution Day Program (Sunday, 28 November, 2021)
6:00 PM Constitution Day Speech by Student Representative
6:05 PM Reading of the Preamble
6:10 PM Address by the Director, Prof. Santanu Chaudhury
6:25 PM Invited Talk on “Constitutions and Constituencies” by Prof. Satish Deshpande, Professor of Sociology, 
University of Delhi
7:10 PM Vote of Thanks
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Invited Talk on "Constitutions and Constituencies"
by Prof. Satish Deshpande, Professor of Sociology, University of Delhi
About the Speaker
Satish Deshpande M.A, Economics (JNU), MA, PhD 
(California) teaches Sociology at DSE, Delhi University. 
His most recent books are the edited volumes 
Sectarian Violence in India: Hindu-Muslim Conflict, 
1966-2015 (with Sanjay Palshikar, Orient Blackswan 
2019), The Problem of Caste (Orient Blackswan 2014), 
and Beyond Inclusion: The Practice of Equal Access 
in Indian Higher Education (with Usha Zacharias, 
Routledge 2013). His other publications include 
Contemporary India: A Sociological View (2003) and 
(with Ghanshyam Shah, Harsh Mander, Sukhadeo 
Thorat and Amita Baviskar) Untouchability in Rural 
India (2006) He is the recipient of the 2012 Malcolm 
Adisheshaiah Award for distinguished contributions to 
development studies. His areas of interest include caste 
and class inequalities; the theory and practice of social 
justice; the history and politics of the social sciences; 
South-South intellectual interactions; higher education; 
and issues in social science teaching, especially the
challenges of language. Prof Deshpande contributes 
regularly to the Indian Express, EPW and other 
national and international periodicals and has taught 
at St.Stephen’s College and DSE (DU), CSDS (Delhi), 
UOH (Hyderabad), and has been a Visiting Professor at 
Department of Anthropology, University of Chicago and 
UC (San Francisco).
About the Talk on “Constitutions and 
Constituencies”
Is our Constitution an orphan? Who cares for it, has a 
stake in it, works for it? Which particular interests or 
forces defend the universal values of the Constitution? 
What have we learnt about -- and from -- the 
Constitution in seven decades?
Student Contests
Debate and Quiz Competitions (01 - 03 December, 
2021)
Contact: Board of Literary Affairs (bla@iitj.ac.in)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Republic Day
26 January 2022
IIT Jodhpur celebrated the 73rd Republic Day in 
mixed mode on 26 January 2022 as a part of Azadi 
ka Amrit Mahotsava. The event included unfurling of 
the National Flag (live-streamed from Admin Block), 
followed by the National Anthem. This was followed by 
the Director's address from the Boardroom and colorful 
cultural performances from the IITJodhpur community 
and students of KV IIT Jodhpur. As per the tradition, 
the Office of Students and various Student Boards 
organized various competitions for campus children 
and students of IIT Jodhpur, whose results were 
announced during the program.
9:25 am Arrival of the Director, Prof. Santanu Chaudhury
9:30 am Flag Unfurling and National Anthem (Heads 
and Deans are invited to join in person outside Admin 
Building)
9:40 am Republic Day Address by the Director (Live-
streamed from the Boardroom)
9:50 am Speech by General Secretary (SAC), Srujan 
Kumar Kankatala
9:55 am Cultural performance by KV Students
10:10 am Cultural performance by IITJ students, faculty, 
staff and EBSB
10:50 am Announcement of results of Student Contests 
and Children's Competitions
11:00 am Vote of Thanks by Prof. Kamaljit Rangra, 
Chairman CCCD
11:05 am End of Virtual Event
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

International Mother Language Day
21 February 2022
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

On the occasion of अन्तर्राष्ट्रीय मातृभाषा दिवस / International 
Mother Language Day on Monday, February 21, 2022, 
the CCCD along with the Board of Literary Affairs 
organized virtual celebrations with colorful cultural 
performances, regional language poetry contest, and a 
language diversity survey.
The program included:
Introduction by the MC, Dr. Katyayanee Sharma
Results of Language Diversity Survey @ IITJ
Address by the Director, Prof Santanu Chaudhury
Cultural performances in various Indian Languages
Cultural performances by
•
Giridhara Uppala (Telugu)
•
Akshath Krishnan (Malayalam)
•
Surya Mitra (Bangla)
•
Niranjana (Malayalam)
•
Dr Kshema Prakash (Tamil)
•
Divyang Palshetkar (Marathi)
•
Kanchan Jha (Hindi)
•
Karooka Kundu (Bangla)
•
Dr Srijan Sengupta (Bangla)
•
Harisharan (Tamil)
•
Manasi Mukherjee (Kannada)
•
Dr Shrutidhara Sarma (Assamese)
•
Suryanshu Mukhopadhyay (Bangla)
•
Sapna Sankhla (Rajasthani Ghoomar)
•
Prof Santanu Chaudhuri (Bangla)
Announcement of Winners of Regional Language 
Poetry Competition (organized by Board of Literary 
Affairs)
First: Bhagwan Das (M21MA055)
Second: Jarpala Ashok (B21BB038)
Third: Pranav Saraswat (D20CI002)
Vote of Thanks by Dr Rajlaxmi Chouhan (Convener, 
CCCD)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Language Diversity@IIT Jodhpur
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

National Science Day
28 February 2022
IIT Jodhpur celebrated National Science Day 2022 
on 28 February 2022 with a Seminar on "INDIA’s 
Journey in Science and Technology: Aspirations 
to Achievements", jointly organized with the MBM 
Engineering College, Jodhpur, Jai Narain Vyas 
University, Jodhpur, Institution's Innovation Council 
(Ministry of Education Initiative) in collaboration with
Jodhpur City Knowledge and Innovation Cluster 
(JCKIC), supported by Vigyan Prasar, Department of 
Science and Technology (DST).
These celebrations were a part of Azadi ka Amrit 
Mahotsav and Prometeo 2022: the National Technical 
and Entrepreneurial Festival of IIT Jodhpur.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

International Women’s Day
08 March 2022
The event included:
Invited Talks on
•

“From Raman Effect to Nuclear Power” by Prof. R. 
Chidambaram, DAE-Homi Bhabha Professor, BARC, 
Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur
•

“Proud to be a Player and Spectator of Post-
Independent India’s Scientific Journey” by Prof. 
Samir Brahmachari, Former Director General of the 
Council of Scientific & Industrial Research, Scientist 
and Founder Director, CSIR- Institute of Genomics & 
Integrative Biology
•

“Celebrating Human Diversity in India: A Legacy of 
Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis” by Prof. Partha P.
Majumder, Distinguished Professor and Founding 
Director, National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, 
National Science Chair Professor, Science & 
Engineering Research Board, GoI, Former Professor, 
Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata
•

“A Brief History of Future: India's Journey in S&T” 
by Prof. Ashutosh Sharma, Former Secretary, 
Department of Science & Technology, Government 
of India, Institute Chair Professor & C. V. Seshadri 
Chair Professor, IIT Kanpur
Popular Science Lecture on:
"Invisible Empire: How Viruses and Microbes Shape Our 
World” by Mr. Pranay Lal, Writer & Biochemist
IIT Jodhpur celebrated International Women’s Day 
2022 on Tuesday, 08 March 2022, with an invited talk 
and panel discussion. The program included:
5:30 PM Introduction
5:35 PM Address by the Director, Prof. Santanu 
Chaudhury
5:45 PM Invited Talk by Prof. Sangeeta Sahney, Head, 
Department of Humanities and Social Sciences &
Professor, School of Management & Entrepreneurship, 
IIT Jodhpur
6:00 PM Panel Discussion on ‘Gender equality today 
for a sustainable tomorrow’ (Panelists: Prof. Sangeeta 
Sahney, Prof. Mitali Mukerji, Dr. Ranju Mohan, Dr. 
Katyayanee Sharma, Mrs. Laxmi Kashyap; Moderator: Dr. 
Prasenjit Tribhuvan)
6:45 PM Vote of Thanks
Panel Discussion on 'Gender equality today for a sustainable tomorrow'
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

IIT Jodhpur has also been running a series on social media showcasing research and achievements of female 
faculty members during Feb - Mar 2022.
Institute Lectures
An Institute Lecture was delivered on 11th March 2022 by Prof. Samir Brahmachari titled “Disruptive innovations in 
healthcare technologies for India to pole vault with soft landing: Can IITians make a difference”.
Prof. Samir Brahmachari, Ex-DG CSIR, is the Academy Professor of the Academy 
of Scientific and Innovative Research, former Professor of Biophysics, Indian 
Institute of Science, Bangalore, and the Chief Mentor of Open-Source Drug 
Discovery. He is also the Chief Mentor of several startups in genomic diagnostics 
and digital health. He was previously the Founder Director of CSIR – Institute 
of Genomics and Integrative Biology (1997-2007), the former Director-General 
of CSIR India, and Secretary, DSIR, Government of India (2007-2013). He is the 
recipient of many national and international awards including the Shanti Swarup 
Bhatnagar Prize. He is an elected fellow of The World Academy of Sciences, 
the European Society of Preventive Medicine, and a member of all four National 
Academies of Science & Engineering, India.
14th Foundation Day 2021 of IIT Jodhpur
02 August 2021
The 14th Foundation Day of the Indian Institute Technology was celebrated at IITJ Auditorium on 02 August 2021 in 
hybrid mode. Prof. Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, Department of Science & Technology, Government of India was 
the Chief Guest on this occasion in an online mode. Prof. Sanjeev Misra, Director, AIIMS Jodhpur was the Guest of 
Honour for the function. The function was presided over by Dr. R. Chidambaram, Chairman Board of Governors, IIT 
Jodhpur, in online mode. Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur in his Welcome Address highlighted the 
achievements of IIT Jodhpur and mentioned that IIT Jodhpur’s vision is Future Driven wherein it is striving to keep 
pace with the exponential changes that are taking place in the technology domain to respond to societal challenges 
and aspirations. He also mentioned that IIT Jodhpur is the first second generation IIT to complete the target of 
building infrastructure and enrolling the number of students. He also described some of the unique academic 
programs initiated by IIT Jodhpur. Prof. Sanjeev Misra in his address mentioned that both IIT Jodhpur and AIIMS 
Jodhpur being institutes of national importance are closely collaborating with each other particularly in the areas 
of Medical Technologies. The joint program on Medical Technologies between the two institutes is a significant 
initiative to address the healthcare related challenges of the country. Prof. Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary DST, 
Government India gave a talk titled “Challenges, Opportunities, Directions and Processes of Science & Technology 
in the New Millennium”. He mentioned that the intersection between science and society is compelling. He 
emphasized that multidisciplinary, interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary research is the need of the hour. He further 
mentioned that four M’s are highly important Mechanics, Materials, Machines and Man. He said that the drivers of
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

future technologies will be the level of comfort, quality of life, good health, to control over the surroundings and 
create a world that we would like to live in. Dr. R. Chidambaram in his presidential address talked about knowledge 
creation and consumption. Knowledge in the industry system and knowledge in the academic system should be in 
equilibrium. Some of the areas such as nuclear, space and few others, the knowledge in the industry system is at 
par with industry in the developed countries. He emphasized the need for the Technology Foresight. He also talked 
about the moonshot projects. In the cultural program organized in the evening, a number of colourful performances, 
including, dance, drama, storytelling, songs, poems, etc., were given by the students, staff, faculty and their family 
members.
7th Convocation of IIT Jodhpur
19th December 2021
The 7th Convocation of Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur was organized on 19 December 2021 in the 
Lecture Hall Complex of the Institute. On the occasion a video message of Honourable Education Minister, Shri 
Dharmendra Pradhan was telecast to all the audience. Dr. Rajesh Gokhale, Secretary, Department of Biotechnology, 
Government of India was the Chief Guest on the occasion. Dr. R. Chidambaram, Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT 
Jodhpur presided over the function. Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur while presented Institute Report 
mentioned that IIT Jodhpur has embarked on an ambitious mission to establish itself as one of the top destinations 
in the country for a wholesome education with right mix of flexible academics, cutting-edge research, curiosity-
driven innovation and curriculum built on technology foresight. He mentioned that despite COVID pandemic, the 
Institute has progressed on all fronts including infrastructure, academics, research, and technology development. 
Dr. R. Chidambaram, Chairman BOG, IIT Jodhpur in his presidential address appreciated the progress made by IIT 
Jodhpur. He mentioned that IIT Jodhpur has taken many important steps towards implementation of New Education 
Policy of the country. He also expressed that Jodhpur City Knowledge and Innovation Cluster, one of the six 
clusters in the country established by the Office of PSA, Government of India, is progressing very well to enhance 
cooperation among the proximate institutes, academia and industry under the leadership of IIT Jodhpur. While 
congratulating the graduating students, he emphasized that they should work toward making India a Knowledge 
Economy and a Developed Country. The Chief Guest of the function, Dr. Rajesh Gokhale, in the convocation 
address shared his experiences of life with the graduating students. He emphasized that it is important to 
understand how to create one’s own identity in this increasingly intertwined world, that makes ‘real life’ interesting 
yet challenging. He shared a few important lessons of life such as “Find your niche while accepting failures’’, “Be 
open to press the reset button all the time”, and “Partnerships and shared vision are key to do new things and 
only ideas are not enough”. On the occasion, 404 graduating students were conferred degrees. These include
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

180 B.Tech., 67 M.Sc., 130 M.Tech. and 27 Ph.D. 59 B.Tech. students were also awarded specialization/ minor area 
certificates in a wide range of areas including Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things, Thermofluids Engineering, 
Robotics and Entrepreneurship & Management.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Facilities
Center for Advanced Scientific Equipment (CASE) at the 
IIT Jodhpur was established in 2018. The CASE has an 
endeavor to provide a state-of-the-art instrumentation 
facility in the multidisciplinary field of research to 
the undergraduate, graduate, Ph.D students and the 
faculties of this esteemed institute as well as researchers 
from other institutes across the country. Currently, a total 
number of 93 high-end instruments are under CASE 
facility. Currently, The space allotted for the CASE facility 
(Room No. 111 & 112, ground floor, Chemistry building) 
houses 22 pieces of equipment, including various 
sophisticated instruments such as 500 MHz NMR, Single 
Crystal XRD, Powder XRD, AFM, SEM, PPMS Dynacool, 
SQUID, Surface area analyzer, DSC, TGA, etc. The rest 
of the equipment under CASE facility are located in 
various departments of the institute. The overall day-to-
day activities and the policy of the center is determined 
by a committee of faculty of this Institute. The main 
objective of the CASE is to offer users of IIT Jodhpur and 
external users smooth access to the high end equipment 
for their research activity. Moreover, CASE is aimed to 
provide hands-on training for students of IIT Jodhpur as 
well as external users by arranging training programs 
and workshops on various sophisticated instruments for 
their professional growth. To fulfill these objectives CASE 
facility provides its users with a transparent and well-
maintained booking system through which users can 
book slots for measurement in any equipment under the 
CASE facility persuasively. Further, the CASE committee
appointed a faculty in charge of each of the instruments 
under CASE for smooth running and maintenance of the 
equipment. Faculty in charge organize training programs 
at certain time intervals on various equipment such as 
NMR, Raman spectrometer, SEM etc. for giving training 
to the internal students. In addition to this CASE has 
recently organized a DST funded week long (8th August-
14th August, 2022) workshop, “Synergistic Training 
Utilizing the Scientific and Technological Infrastructure” 
(STUTI), on instrumentation to provide training for 
underprivileged students across the country. It was 
inaugurated by The Director, IIT Jodhpur Prof. Santanu 
Chaudhary, on 8th August, 2022. A total number of 45 
students were shortlisted for participating in this program 
out of the 300 students registered online for STUTI. 
And 42 participants from 12 states, such as Tamil Nadu, 
Delhi, MP, Maharashtra, Bihar, UP, Kerala, Rajasthan, 
Haryana, Uttrakhand, Gujrat, and Panjab, participated in 
this program. By providing such an opportunity towards 
the external user’s CASE facility is thriving to extend its 
service to all national institutes and R & D organizations 
for accessing this facility on a minimal chargeable basis.
Center for Advanced Scientific Equipment (CASE)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Computer Centre
The Institute has a modern Computer Centre to cater 
its allround IT requirements starting from computing 
resources to last mile internet connectivity. Computer 
Center is the nucleus of major computing activities 
for students, staff members and faculty members. A 
modern data center equipped with High Performance 
Computing (2500 CPU Cores) and AI supercomputers 
(4 DGX A100) providing 20000 plus teraflops of 
computing power is the heart of this computing facility.
The Computer Center is powered by a 10 G backbone. 
Presently the institute’s internet requirements are met 
by 4 Gbps Internet lease line. The institute network
consists of 2 Core switches, more than 400 access 
and distribution switches and 700 wireless access 
points with high availability. This network covers the 
entire campus including service stations and gates. 
Further the network is protected by the latest UTM that 
provides seamless protection from any cyber threats. 
It also provides secure VPN connectivity to IIT Jodhpur 
fraternities while they are not inside the campus. The 
Computer Center of IIT Jodhpur is the proud host 
of 4 DGX A100 AI Supercomputers out of which two 
new DGX A100 AI Supercomputers are added in the 
financial year 2021-2022 from TIH iHub Drishti. The 
data center also hosts several computing servers, 
application servers, mini HPCs and 0.5 Petabyte 
storage servers. Six license servers of various operating 
systems from Windows and GNU/Linux family are 
used to hosting various licensed software like MatLab, 
Mathematica, Cadence, Mentor Graphic, Ansys, PSCAD, 
Solidworks and many more from different departments. 
Computer Center hosts all the required websites of 
the institute including the institute main website. All the 
needs of DNS are maintained by the computer center 
at their datacenter. Multiple Domain Name Servers 
(DNS) with three separate internet service providers 
have been deployed to eliminate single points of failure 
and dependence on a single internet service provider 
(ISP).
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Computer Center uses the industry standard Service Desk Ticketing System to manage all support requests 
including technical support and complaints. Computer Center completed a year on this supporting platform solving 
more than 3000 support tickets in a year. Several new services have been introduced during the financial year 
2021-22 including automations and on-premise cloud services. In order to achieve the institute's vision objectives, 
Computer Center initiated establishing several cloud applications based on open source projects, e.g., OwnCloud, 
MatterMost, OpenStack to name a few.
Major Initiatives in FY 2021-22
•

E-office Implementation: The institute is adopting the e-file module of e-office at IIT Jodhpur, following in the 
footsteps of a DIGITAL INDIA. The process of implementation of e-office was started in March, 2021 with the 
help of e-Office Project Division, National Informatics Centre. With the active involvement of the Computer 
Center team, Faculty and Administrative staff of IITJ eOffice was successfully implemented in FY 2021-22. On 
May 3, 2022, Prof. Professor Santanu Chaudhury, the esteemed director of IIT Jodhpur, officially inaugurated the 
e-office.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

•

Private Cloud Storage Facility: An open source 
private cloud file storage service (using OwnCloud) 
has been installed on unified storage at Computer 
Center. It enables secure storage, collaboration 
and sharing between members of IITJ. This storage 
facility will further reduce the dependency of public 
cloud storage like Google Drive, Dropbox, Onedrive 
etc.
•

Mattermost Messaging Platform: In order to reduce 
the dependency on third party vendors and keep 
our communication data (which is absolutely 
critical to be in our hands) with IIT Jodhpur itself, 
Computer Center hosted open source MatterMost 
Messaging platform. Mattermost provides secure 
communication, collaboration, and orchestration of 
work across teams and tools.
Facilities
The Computer Center provides facilities of internet, 
email, IP telephone, cloud storage, WiFi, computing, 
VPN, LDAP, license server, online classrooms (such 
as moodle), FTP, and on premise web hosting to IIT 
Jodhpur fraternities. Computer Center also provides 
SSL certificates for all the iitj.ac.in domains and 
subdomains.
Resources
The Institute has several key resources at the Computer 
Center which includes softwares, hardwares, operating 
systems and laboratories with modern computers. 
At present two computer laboratories, one with 45
terminals and another with 40 terminals are operated 
by the Computer Center. These laboratories have 
seating capacity of 110 and 120 respectively. Computer 
Center has licenses of Microsoft Windows Operating 
Systems, Microsoft Office, RHEL, RHVM and Matlab. 
Details of the resources are provided below.
Hardware Infrastructure
The Computer Center has the following hardware 
infrastructure to provide several facilities and services 
inside the campus.
•
4 NVIDIA DGX A100 AI Supercomputer
•
NAS storage with 200 TB space
•
PFS storage with 200 TB space
•
SAN storage with 30 TB space
•
Unified storage with 50 TB space
•

Cisco WebEx room 70 duals currently installed at 
the Board Room
•

WebEx room 55 single currently installed at CDC 
Room
•

WebEx board 85 and Room Kit Pro Precision 60 
currently available at LHB
•

Cluster of 14 Servers consisting of 3 Cisco, 4 Dell 
and 7 Lenovo server
•
Fortinet UTM and FortiAnalyzer
•

Cisco Communication System: CUCM, Voice 
Gateway and CMS in HA for IP Phones
•
IP Phone (440 phone installed till date)
•
Network equipments 1000+
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Hosted VM’s & Physical Server
Software Licenses
•
Red Hat Enterprise Linux
•
Standard License: 26 License
•
HPC: 56 License
•
RHVM: 40 License
•
Microsoft campus wide license with Office 365
•
Microsoft 365 A3 for students use benefit : 4000
•
Microsoft 365 A3 for faculty : 200
•
O365EDUA3OpnFac ShrdSvr ES : 2
•
Win Server Standard Core : 32
•
SQL Svr Ent Core : 2
•
Google
•
Google Workspace for Education: Unlimited
•

Google Workspace Education Plus: 250 Faculty 
License and 2500 Student License
•
MATLAB License: Unlimited Institute Wide Access
•
WebEx
•
Advanced Space Meetings: 2520 Licenses
•
Meeting Suite: 2520 Licenses
•
Device: 120 Licenses
•
Jira License: 15 Agent License
Training Organized by Computer Center
•
Slack User-end Training (online)
•
e-Office training for Master trainers (offline)
•
e-Office user training (offline and online)
•
Microsoft Office to all Staff member
•
Word
•
Excel
•

Unicode and keyboard setup for Hindi language 
use in Windows (online)
Young and Dynamic Team
The computer center is managed by a young and 
dynamic team of experienced engineers and faculty 
members. Several new members joined the technical 
workforce in FY 2021-22.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Library
The Learning Hub, i.e., the library supports teaching and research activities of the Institute by facilitating 
acquisition, organization and dissemination of knowledge resources, and also by providing library & 
information services to IIT Jodhpur community. The Learning Hub of the Institute is situated prominently at the 
entrance of the academic area of the Institute, stands as the tallest structure on the campus scaling over 15m 
from the ground; keeps time for the entire campus with a 4-way clock at the clock tower, only the third in the 
city of Jodhpur. It functions under the guidance of the Library Committee, which has representatives from all 
Departments, and Student Representatives.
The Learning Hub, Library Building at IIT Jodhpur
(https://library.iitj.ac.in/)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Collection
The Library has a rich and growing collection of 
approximately 15,600 volumes of books and e-books, 
which include textbooks, and books of general and 
reference nature. A wide range of scholarly journals, 
databases and research support tools are also 
subscribed from various sources for the academic and 
research purposes of the Institute.
Services & Facilities
The following services and facilities are being provided 
by the Library to its registered users:
1.	
Member & Circulation Services,
2. Orientation & User Education,
3. Borrowing Facility,
4. Reference & Information Service,
5. Course Reserves,
6. Current Awareness Service,
7.	
Inter Library Loan & Document Supply, and
8. Digital Library Facility & Services.
Biometric enabled RFID technology: The library services 
are automated through Biometric enabled RFID 
technology using smart library solution for an effective 
management of the library and providing enhanced 
services like, self-check-out, self-check-in (book drop), 
security of materials, inventory management and finding 
misplaced items, stock verification, visitor counter, 
Smart Card issuance, etc.
Digital resources: Digital resources are accessible 
through the user-friendly, responsive Library website, 
which is a comprehensive site maintained by Library. 
These include the Library subscribed resources, online 
catalogue, lists of useful resources accessible in the 
open domain like the open access journals, books, 
repositories, video lectures, open courseware. These 
resources are continuously updated.
A resource guide portal has also been developed and 
maintained by Library, wherein, resources i.e., books 
available in Library, subscribed journals, resources 
accessible in open domain are listed and linked, 
course-wise.
Library subscribes to the Plagiarism Detection Tool 
and Remote Access Tool for its users. Orientation 
sessions and Library Instruction sessions for Students 
are conducted by the Library Staff Members during 
registration of new students and on demand.
Some of the important journal resources and academic 
& research support tools subscribed by the Library are:
A. Journal Resources
1.	
AiChE Journal
2. 
American Association for Advancement of 
Science - Science Online
3. American Chemical Society (ACS) Journals
4. American Institute of Physics (AIP) Journals
5. American Physical Society (APS) Journals
6. 
American Society for Civil Engineers (ASCE) 
Journals
7.	

American Society for Mechanical Engineers 
(ASME) Digital Library
8. 
Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) 
Digital Library
9. ASTM Standards & Digital Library
10. Begell House Digital Library
11. EBSCO Business Source Ultimate
12. Elsevier Science Direct
13. Emerald Management Journals
14. IEEE Xplore Digital Library
15. Institute of Physics (IoP)
16. Journal of Visualised Experiments (JoVE)
17. JStor
18. Optical Society of America (OSA)
19. Oxford University Press (OUP)
20.	Project MUSE
21. Royal Society of Chemistry
22.	
Sage - Institute for Mechanical Engineers 
(IMechE) Journals
23.	
Society for Industrial & Applied Mathematics 
(SIAM) Digital Library
24.	Springer Nature
25.	Taylor & Francis - SSH, S&T Collections
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S. No. Description Statistics
1. Print Books Total 249
a. Number of titles added 154
a. Number of volumes added 101
2. eBooks
a. Number of titles & volumes added 85
3. Number of Scholarly Resources subscribed (For CY 2021) Total 49
a. Fulltext resources 32
b. Archive of fulltext journals 4
c. Research databases 6
d. Research support tools 5
e. Fulltext Standard 1
f. Digital Newspaper & Magazines 1
4. Document Supply & Inter Library Loan service requested fulfilled Total 124
a. Document supply of articles & research papers 123
b. Books arranged on Inter Library Loans 1
5. Circulation Transactions Total 4,460
a. Number of book check-outs 1,957
b. Number of book check-ins 1,910
c. Number of book renewals 586
d. Number of book recalls 7
B. Research Magazines
1.	
Chemical & Engineering News
2. Economic & Political Weekly
3. Harvard Business Review
4. MIT Sloan Management Review
5. The Economist
C. Research Databases
1.	
EPW India Time Series
2. IndiaStat
3. Institute for Studies in Industrial Development 
(ISID)
4. MathSciNet
5. RemoteXs
6. SciFinder Scholar-n
7.	
Scopus
8. ShodhShuddhi (Ouriginal)
9. Turnitin Feedback Studio
10. Web of Science
D. eBooks
1.	
Cambridge University Press
2. EBSCO eBooks
3. Elsevier Science
4. McGraw-Hill Access Engineering
5. Oxford University Press
6. ProQuest eBook Central
7.	
Taylor & Francis
8. Wiley Interscience
E. Leisure Reading
Press Reader
The vital statistics of Library for FY 2021-22, are as follow:
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Library Services during COVID-19 pandemic period: 
In response to the unprecedented pandemic situation, 
the Library swiftly responded to it by switching its 
methods and offering the following services and 
facilities to their users:
1.	
Rapid acquisition of eBooks
2. Off-campus access of Library resources to all users
3. 
Transformed Circulation Services by following 
COVID-19 protocols in a way that would best suit 
the users without having to compromise on their 
requirements
4. Intensified Document Delivery Services
Memberships: The Library is a core member of the 
eShodhSindhu: Consortium for Higher Education 
Electronic Resources, operated by INFLIBNET Center, 
Gandhinagar, through which subscriptions to major 
resources are fulfilled. Besides, the Library is a member 
of DEveloping Libraries NETwork (DELNET), New Delhi 
through which the Library meets its Inter Library Loan 
requirements.
Workshops & Trainings Conducted: The Learning 
Hub Workshop Series, Season 1 and Season 2 were 
organized by the Library for the user community to 
spread awareness about the resources subscribed by 
the library and other useful academic and research 
support tools available for use to them, during 
March-May 2021, and September-November 2021, 
respectively. Several resource experts and writing 
experts were invited to address the users in optimally 
using the resources available to them. Some of the 
important ones include EBSCO and ProQuest eBooks 
platform, McGraw Hill Access Engineering, Elsevier’s 
Scopus and Mendeley, Web of Science and EndNote, 
RemoteXs, Grammarly, Turnitin, Original (FKA Urkund), 
Oxford University Press, Cambridge University Press, 
Journal of Visualised Experiments (JoVE), Springer Link, 
IndiaStat, EPW India Time Series, SciFinder Scholar-n, to 
name a few.
Stacks & General Section
RFID Gate & Drop-Box
Circulation Counter
Reading Room
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Library Staff Activities
1.	
Dr. Kshema Prakash, Mr. Amit Kumar Soni, Mr. 
Kamleshkumar J. Patel, and Mr. C. Chhatwani 
attended One Day Specialized Online Awareness 
Program on Shodhganga for University 
Coordinators/Library Professionals from CFTIs/INIs 
organized by INFLIBNET Centre, Gandhinagar on 
8 February 2022.
2. Dr. Kshema Prakash, Mr. Amit Kumar Soni, Mr. 
Kamleshkumar J. Patel, and Mr. C. Chhatwani 
attended Training on e-Office Management 
as e-Office Digitization Coordinator/Nodal 
Coordinator from the Office of Library, and Office 
of Publications, IIT Jodhpur, on 2 March 2022, 
organized and conducted by the Computer 
Centre of the Institute.
3. Mr. Kamleshkumar J. Patel attended Online 
NACLIN 2021 on “The Future Ready Libraries and 
Librarian: Thinking the Unthinkable” organized by 
Developing Library Network (DELNET), New Delhi 
during 6-8 December 2021.
4. Mr. Kamleshkumar J. Patel and Mr. Chunni 
Chhatwani attended One-day online Conference 
on “Transforming Libraries & Empowering LIS 
Professionals” organized by Developing Libraries 
Network (DELNET), New Delhi and National 
Library of Sri Lanka, on 9th March 2022.
5. Mr. Kamleshkumar J. Patel and Mr. Chunni 
Chhatwani attended DELNET Online Annual 
Lecture on “Navigating Pathway: Preparing the 
Future Workforce of LIS Professionals” by Trish 
Hepworth on 22nd March 2022.
Scholarly Publications
1.	

Patel, K. J., Prakash, K. and Parekh, Y. R. (2021). 
Open Educational Resources: An overview. 
Towards Excellence. Vol. 13, Issue 2, June 2021, 
pp. 295-306, ISSN - 0974-035X.
Professional Activities
1.	
Dr. Kshema Prakash delivered an expert lecture 
on “Research Data Management and Role of 
Libraries” on 25th February 2022 as a Resource 
Person in Short Term Training Program on “Role of 
Libraries & Librarians in Pandemic Era,” organized 
by Resource Centre & IQAC of Gandhinagar 
Institute of Technology and sponsored by AICTE 
& GTU, from 21-02-2022 to 26-02-2022.
2. Mr. Kamleshkumar J. Patel delivered a talk on 
“Take Control of your Library Data: SubjectsPlus” 
on 26th February 2022 as a Resource Person in 
Short Term Training Program on “Role of Libraries 
& Librarians in Pandemic Era,” organized by 
Resource Centre & IQAC of Gandhinagar Institute 
of Technology and sponsored by AICTE & GTU, 
from 21-02-2022 to 26-02-2022.
3. Dr. Kshema Prakash delivered an expert lecture 
on “Research Data Management and Role of 
Libraries” on 3rd March 2022 as a Resource 
person in one-week AICTE sponsored Short Term 
Training Program on Research Excellence and 
Academic Development: Modern Library Practices 
in Present Scenario, organized by Pt. Deendayal 
Upadhyay Central Library, J.C. Bose University of 
Science & Technology, YMCA, Faridabad during 
28.02.2022 – 05.03.2022.
4. Dr. Kshema Prakash delivered a talk as Guest 
Speaker on “What books say to us? Significance 
of literary resources in shaping career.” at an 
Online National Webinar on the occasion of 
Librarian’s Day (129th Birth Anniversary of Dr. S. R. 
Ranganathan) on 12 August 2021 at SSR Institute 
of Management & Research, Silvassa.
5. Dr. Kshema Prakash delivered an Expert 
Lecture on “The Power of Words: Interpersonal 
Communication Skills for Academic Librarians” 
on 6 August 2021 during the AICTE-RGPV Joint 
Teachers Training Program - One week online
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Short Term Training Programme (STTP) on 
“Library Automation, Management and Innovative 
Library Services” organized by Department 
of Central Library, Rajiv Gandhi Proudyogiki 
Vishwavidyalaya, Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh during 
2-7 August 2021.
6. Dr. Kshema Prakash delivered an Expert Lecture 
on “(K)night in the Library” on 4 August 2021 
during UGC Sponsored Refresher Course on 
‘The New Normal: Reinventing Libraries and
Librarianship’ conducted by UGC-HRD Centre, Dr. 
Hari Singh Gour Vishwavidyalaya, Sagar, Madhya 
Pradesh, during 31 July – 14 August, 2021.
7.	
Dr. Kshema Prakash reviewed an article for the 
Canadian Journal of Learning and Technology/
La revue canadienne de l’apprentissage et de la 
technologie, in December 2021.
8. Dr. Kshema Prakash served as Managing Editor 
for TechScape: The Science, Technology and 
Education Journal of IIT Jodhpur.
Amit
Chhatwani
Kamlesh
Rinkesh
Kshema
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Our Campus
IIT Jodhpur moved to its Permanent Campus during 
May-June 2017, which is 25 kms away from the heart of 
Jodhpur city. Sprawling over three land parcels (Pocket 
A, Pocket B and Pocket C) on NH-62, Jodhpur-Nagaur 
Highway. IIT Jodhpur campus has 852 acres of land. The 
Campus was awarded a 5-star rating by the Green Rating 
for Integrated Habitat Assessment (GRIHA) council for its 
scrupulous planning. The ecological, cultural & social 
values associated with this site is protected by taking 
inspiration from the vernacular building layouts, design 
elements & treatments for the Campus Landscape & 
architecture. The key elements of the vision for the IIT 
Jodhpur Campus includes:
•

Sustainability & carbon Neutrality: Creating a smart, 
Intelligent Eco-Campus;
•

Campus as “Living Laboratory”: Demonstrating 
futuristic Technologies;
•

Respect for the Jodhpur’s desert ecology & Local 
architectural heritage;
•

Quality living & learning environment based on 
cross- disciplinary interactions; and
•

Creation of a unique identity for the prestigious IITs.
The planning of the Campus aims to reach Net-zero 
Energy, Water & Waste, making the Campus self-
sustainable. The other salient features of the Permanent 
Campus are:
(1) Walk to work concept – the campus is pedestrian 
oriented and bicycle dominant;
(2) Learning facilitated anywhere, anytime with wireless 
ICT backbone (including Multi-media enabled 
learning spaces with flexible, shared public spaces 
and hybrid classrooms);
(3) Smart infrastructure with GRIHA 4/5 star compliant 
buildings and GRIHA LD benchmark campus 
(incorporating centralized chiller plant for air 
conditioning, a utility tunnel housing all the MEP 
services, dense desert settlement morphology, low 
height buildings (3 storeys) built with low embodied 
energy materials, and improved local and traditional 
methods);
(4) Plantation with native species, soil stabilization, 
protection from dusty wind to arrest erosion, 
desertification, and building-up soil moisture over 
time;
(5) Rain water harvesting, and water reduction and 
sewage recycling, together greening the site over 
time; and
(6) Segregation of wastes and customized recycling.
Faculties and Staff Members are residing on campus. 
Total 132 Type B Houses and 84 Type C houses have 
been constructed along with 12 new hostel buildings 
and two hostel buildings are under construction. The 
salient feature of these hostels is Air Conditioned Room 
accommodation in all hostel buildings. Two dedicated 
dining hall buildings catering to the needs of students and 
other residents with a mess and a canteen in each, that 
serves hygienic and nutritious food. Essential services 
and amenities have been established to facilitate 
residents in their day-to-day needs. There is a Primary 
Health Center (PHC) being managed by M/s. Goyal 
Hospital & Research Centre, Jodhpur, on contract. Its 
activities are supervised by the Medical Users’ Services 
Committee in consultation with the Medical Officer of IIT 
Jodhpur. Basic services like the groceries, dining and 
food court, bank, stationery, laundry, beauty parlor and
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

gents salon, vegetable shop, cycle repairing shop etc. 
are operational in the Campus.
Kendriya Vidyalaya is also functional in the campus 
which is housed in Pocket B of IIT Jodhpur campus.
There is a dedicated bus service for commuting from the 
Campus to and from the city of Jodhpur.
The photographs shown in the pages to follow, give a 
glimpse of the campus of IIT Jodhpur.
A Birds Eye View – IIT Jodhpur Campus
Director’s Bungalow
Hostel Blocks
Housing Society (Type-B)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Housing Society (Type-C)
Berms
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Facilities on Campus
The following are some facilities that are available in 
Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur:
(a) ATM & Bank: The State Bank of India and the 
Canara Bank, IIT Jodhpur Branch are operational 
in the campus which provides banking solutions 
to the IIT fraternity. Their ATMs are housed in the 
Community Centre Building, Lecture Hall Building & 
Main Administration Building, enabling the entire IIT 
Jodhpur fraternity ease of transactions.
(b) Dining Hall: The two Dining Hall Buildings has 
a Mess and a Restaurant in each that caters to 
the need of all students and employees. They 
provide hygienic food, fresh juices and various 
other snacks. The mess offers good quality food, 
regularly monitored by the Wardens for hygiene 
and nutritional values, and provided at affordable 
cost.
(c) Gymnasium: All student hostels have well-equipped 
gymnasium for students.
(d) Entertainment Room: Every hostel consists of 
recreation facilities (like TV Rooms, where students 
can enjoy matches and watch movies) along with 
indoor games (like table tennis and caroms).
(e) Laundry Service: Students and residents are 
facilitated with a dedicated laundry service on 
campus.
(f) Shopping Center: Various shops catering to the 
primary needs of students and residents, like 
grocery, dairy products, stationery, grooming 
services; All are housed in the Community Center 
Building and berms.
(g) Transport Services: The Institute has a bus service 
running between the Permanent Campus and 
Jodhpur City at regular intervals, exclusively for the 
Students, faculty and staff of the Institute.
(h) Medical Services: The Primary Health Center 
operated by M/s. Goyal Hospital & Research Center 
Pvt. Ltd., Jodhpur, on contract, provides routine 
health services to students and residents of the 
Campus. Besides this fully functional, round-the-
clock, Primary Health Center in the campus, IIT 
Jodhpur avails services from the All India Institute 
of Medical Sciences and the associated Hospitals 
of the S. N. Medical College and some specialized
hospitals. The Institute has agreements with a few 
prominent hospitals for priority treatment to its 
employees and students. These include: Goyal 
Hospital and Research Center, MediPulse Hospital, 
Vasan Eye Care Hospital, Vasundhra Hospital and 
other hospitals.
(i) Post Office: To cater the requirement of Postal 
Services of the campus residents a post office is 
now functional at the main gate of the campus.
(j) E-Rikshaw Service: For providing commutating 
services inside the campus premises for visitors, 
E-Rikshaw service is provided by the Institute.
(k) Jodhpur Club: This facility is developed exclusively 
for the requirement of faculties and staff members 
along with their family members. It houses a 
restaurant, Indoor Badminton Court (wooden 
floor), space for Gymnasium, Library, 200 Seating 
Capacity multipurpose hall etc. The Euro Kids 
Preschool and Daycare has also started functioning 
in the Jodhpur Club.
(l) Art Work: Adding to the beauty of campus following 
artworks have been developed-
(i) 
Brain Tree: This sculpture employs the motif of 
the circuit as seen on a printed circuit board. 
It is contoured to take the form of the brain. 
It suggests the overlapping of human and 
artificial intelligence, leaving the possibilities 
to the imagination. This is not only about the 
potential of neurotechnology but the potential 
of leveraging machine intelligence with the 
purpose of enhancing the human experience, 
through establishing connections in the same 
way that a PCB connects electronic or electrical 
components, to perform a function of value.
(ii) 
Circle of Success: This sculpture, situated at 
the entrance of the Institute, represents the 
circular dance of knowledge like the cosmic 
dance of Nataraja- an interplay of the circles 
of creation, preservation and destruction- 
besides the balletic form of the compass upon 
a drawing board release ripples in the form of 
circles. Science itself is a tool giving expression 
to thought and imagination. The circle is a 
universal symbol representing perfection, 
eternity. The circular form is also used to
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

represent the Zero which was first used in India 
as a value on its own.
(iii) 
Water Fountain Sculptures: Water Fountains 
are developed to enhance the beauty of the 
campus in front of the Administrative Block, 
Lecture Hall Building and at the Community 
Centre. Water Fountain in front of the 
administrative block is a sculpture made from 
steel and decorated with Jet Brown Granite 
boundary. The other water fountains are Ball 
Fountains where the ball consists of solid 
granite stone rotated with the pressure of water.

For its copybook-style Master Plan, the Master 
Plan of IIT Jodhpur’s Permanent Campus has 
been awarded 5 Star Rating by the Green 
Rating for Integrated Habitat Assessment 
(GRIHA) Council under GRIHA LD V1 category
on 11 December 2018. The campus design of 
IIT Jodhpur visualizes all parts of all zones as 
interdependent, integral networks, like the 
metabolism of a living organism, integrating 
social, economic and environmental 
sustainability to become a near-zero emission 
campus. Unlike a campus where buildings 
are spread out, increasing infrastructure and 
water consumption and creating heat islands, 
this campus uses a series of compact urban 
clusters typical of desert settlements. The 
campus is designed to be a flexible plug and 
play system by using a series of service tunnels, 
trenches and serviceable shafts that allow easy 
maintenance and upgrading of all wired and 
piped services without breaking open a wall, 
slab or road.
Community Centre
Community Centre
Dining Hall
Primary Health Centre
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Fountain in front of Administration Building
Brain Tree Circle
Academic & Research Facilities
The Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur spreads across 
852 acres of land located ~24 km away from the center 
of the city of Jodhpur on National Highway 62 towards 
Nagaur, N-NE from the center of Jodhpur. It has 3 
parcels of land. Presently constructions exist in Pockets 
A and B. The First and Second phase of construction is 
completed and the construction of the Third phase will 
commence shortly. Buildings that are being used for its 
academic, research and administrative activities are:
1.	
Main Building, housing the administrative offices of 
the Institute;
2. The Learning Hub, housing the Library of the 
Institute
3. Lecture Hall Building with 8 class rooms of 60 
seating capacity, 02 class room of 120 seating 
capacity and a 325-seater and 650-seater 
classroom each. All the classrooms are air 
conditioned, equipped with modern learning 
facilities like the Internet and audio-visual facilities;
4. The Basic Laboratories are established in one 
building;
5. Department of Computer Science & Engineering 
(CSE) Building houses the Departments of CSE, 
Mathematics, and Humanities & Social Sciences.
Also, the laboratories of Computer Science & 
Engineering are established in this building;
6. Chemistry Building housing the Department of 
Chemistry;
7.	
Electrical Building housing the Department of 
Electrical Engineering;
8. Mechanical Building housing the Department of 
Mechanical Engineering;
9. Physics Building housing the Department of 
Physics;
10. Metallurgical and Materials Building housing the 
Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering 
and Department of Chemical Engineering;
11. Bioscience & Bioengineering building housing the 
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering;
12. Incubation & Innovation Centre Building housing 
the Technology Innovation and Startup Centre 
for nurturing innovation and entrepreneurship in 
various domains;
13. Semi-Permanent Building for Animal House and 
School of Management & Entrepreneurship;
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

14. Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) Centre is 
established in a part of Primary Health Centre 
building;
15. Kendriya Vidyalaya runs in the First Building of IIT 
Jodhpur in Pocket B.
16. School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science;
17. 
Workshop Building which also house Civil and 
Infrastructure Engineering Department;
18. Central Instrumentation facility Building.
19. Berms: Eastern (23 nos.) and Western (28 nos.) - 
Each berm comprises 5 bays and provides ample 
space for housing Laboratories for the Departments 
of Civil & Infrastructure Engineering, Chemical 
Engineering, Research Labs on Interdisciplinary 
Research, Gymkhana, commercial establishments 
etc.
The photographs in the following pages provide a 
glimpse of the Campus of IIT Jodhpur.
Admin Building
The Learning Hub: Library Building
Basic Lab Building
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Building
Chemistry Building
Computer Science Engineering Building
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Electrical Engineering Building
Metallurgical & Materials Engineering and Chemical 
Engineering Building
Bioscience and Bioengineering Building
Computer Centre Building
Central Instrumentation Facility Building
School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science Building
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Sports Facilities
A separate Sports Zone is developed to provide 
excellent Indoor and Outdoor Sports Facilities to the 
students, Faculty and Staff Members. The playing 
facilities presently developed outdoor are:
(1) Cricket Ground with separate practice pitches;
(2) Foot Ball Ground;
(3) Hockey Ground;
(4) Synthetic Basket Ball Courts;
(5) Synthetic Lawn Tennis Courts;
(6) Synthetic Athletic Track;
(7) Volleyball Courts; and
(8) Kabaddi Courts.
The Indoor Stadium (Aakash Complex) houses the 
following facilities:
(1) Badminton Courts;
(2) Table Tennis Courts;
(3) Squash Courts (Single & Double); and
Aakash Building
Sports Facility – Indoor (Aakash Complex)
Stadium and Outdoor Courts
Aakash Building
Cricket Ground Practice Pitches
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

OBC, PwD, Minority Cell
An OBC, PwD and Minority Cell for ensuring the 
proper utilization and adoption of reservation policies 
and guidelines issued by the Government of India, is 
functional at IIT Jodhpur. The Cell deals with matters 
related to grievances received from OBC, PwD, and 
Minority employees, and students, in the Institute. The 
Cell acts as a communicator between the Institute and 
the Ministry of Education in matters related to the OBC, 
PwD, Minority students and employees in the Institute. 
The Cell has not received any grievances from either 
students or employees belonging to OBC, PwD, or 
Minority categories during the Financial year 2021-22.
SC/ST Cell
The Institute is sensitive about any kind of 
discrimination against Students and Employees of SC 
and ST Categories. Therefore, an SC and ST Helpdesk 
for ensuring the proper utilization and adaptation of 
reservation policies and guidelines issued by the 
Government of India is functional at IIT Jodhpur. The 
Institute ensures that Faculty Members, Staff Members, 
and Students desist from any act of discrimination of 
any kind against Students and employees belonging to 
these categories.
The Helpdesk deals with matters related to grievances 
received from SC and ST employees and students in 
the Institute. The Helpdesk acts as a communicator 
between the Institute and the Ministry of Education in 
matters related to SC and ST students and employees 
in the Institute.
The Cell has not received any grievances from either 
students or employees belonging to the SC/ST 
category during the Financial year 2021-22.
Vigilance Office
As per the guidelines received from CVC and Ministry 
of Education, the Vigilance Awareness Week was 
observed from 26th October to 1st November 2021. 
During this week, Extempore Speech Competition 
(Hindi or English) and Essay Writing Competition 
(Hindi or English) were organized for the students and 
employees of the Institute. There have been no cases 
of vigilance in the Institute during the Financial Year 
2021-22.
Internal Complaints 
Committee
The Internal Complaints Committee has been 
constituted as per the requirement of the act. The 
committee decided to place posters pertaining to 
awareness on the Sexual Harassment of Women at 
Work Place (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 
2013 (POSH Act). The posters were put up at Hostels, 
Students Mess, departments and other buildings of 
the institute. There was 1 recorded case which was 
resolved by conciliation.
Office of Hindi
The Office of Hindi has organized Hindi Pakhwada 
during 14th to 28th September, 2021, at Indian Institute 
of Technology Jodhpur, in which competitions viz., 
Essay Writing, Chitra Dheko Kahani Likho and Hasya/ 
Vyangya/ Kavita Paath were organized through online 
medium for the employees of the Institute. More than 
50 participants took part in it. Also, during the inaugural 
ceremony of the Hindi Diwas celebrations, the Hindi 
Bhasha Specialist encouraged the employees to 
work in Hindi language during their day-to-day official 
works. In order to motivate the employees to work in 
Hindi language, an Official Language Workshop was 
organized on 15th February 2022. The employees 
were provided training on filling the Quarterly Progress 
Reports of Hindi Rajbhasha.
Office of Publications
The Office of Publications at IIT Jodhpur oversees the 
publication of documents namely, the Annual Report 
of the Institute, TechScape: The Science, Technology 
and Education Journal of IIT Jodhpur (3 issues per
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Primary Health Centre Building
year), Convocation Reports, Institute Brochures and 
other periodical publications. The Office works under 
the guidance of the Institute Publication Committee 
consisting of faculty and staff members. The Office 
coordinates with various stakeholders and authors from 
within and outside of the Institute, and designing and 
printing teams, in bringing out these publications and 
facilitates the broadcast and dissemination of these 
publications from time to time.
Primary Health Centre
IIT Jodhpur provides round the clock health care 
facilities to Students, Faculty and Staff Members of the 
Institute, at its Permanent Campus. This fully equipped 
and self-sufficient facility is run by M/s. Goyal Hospital & 
Research Center Private Limited, Jodhpur, on contract. 
Presently, the following facilities are available at the 
Primary Health Center (PHC).
1. Qualified Medical Doctors,
2. Regular Visits of Specialist Doctors,
3. Paramedical Staff,
4. Diagnostic laboratory,
5. Physiotherapy Unit,
7. 24 Hours Emergency Room, and
8. An ACLS Ambulance.
Besides this, IIT Jodhpur is also availing facilities 
available at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, S. 
N. Medical College and some specialized hospitals. The 
Institute has agreements with a few prominent hospitals 
for priority treatment to its employees and students. 
These include: Goyal Hospital and Research Center, 
MediPulse Hospital, ASG Eye Hospital, and Vasundhara 
Hospital.
The Health Center coordinates and supervises 
the treatment of students, employees, and their 
dependents during hospitalization in other hospitals 
that are empaneled by the Institute, to provide 
treatment. On request, the Health Center extends its 
health care services to Institute visitors during their 
stay on campus. Under emergency circumstances 
medical services are also extended to the non-IIT 
Jodhpur community residents in the residential campus. 
Details like patient records, medicine procurement/
disbursement, assets, equipment of the Health Center 
are all computerized. Visits of Specialist Doctors are 
scheduled at the Primary Health Center regularly. PHC 
also organizes Covid-19 vaccination and blood donation 
camps in coordination with the State Government of 
Rajasthan.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

institute with dedication and commitment. OPD services 
were provided in the Institute PHC to all the residents 
of the campus by the medical officer of the Institute and 
Doctors and support medical staffs from Goyal Hospital 
(the medical service provider at PHC). Arrangements 
were made to provide medical services (both OPD 
& IPD) to its residents in four different empanelled 
hospitals in Jodhpur.
FY2021-22 were significantly hit with 2nd and 3rd 
wave of COVID. During that time, efforts were made to 
keep the campus safe from the COVID-Pandemic. 14 
vaccination camps were organized for both covieshield 
and covaxin (including precautionary doses) inside
the campus for its residents (faculty, staff, their family 
members, and students) and altogether 3145 number 
of vaccinations were done. During the same time, 
5829 number of RT-PCR tests were conducted in the 
campus with help of the support staff of the Institute, 
PHC and AIIMS Jodhpur. The PHC and MSUC both 
played crucial role in management of COVID inside the 
campus including management of COVID patient in 
super isolation.
During that period, eye check-up camp was organized 
in association with ASG Eye hospital. Arrangement 
was also made for specialist doctor visit in the campus 
(orthopaedics, gynaecologist, paediatrician).
A glimpse of the vaccination camp conducted inside the campus for its 
students, faculty, staff, and their family members
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

STUDENTS
Student Council
As per the Constitution of SAC and ACAC, President 
of the various Boards under SAC and ACAC has been 
appointed to organize the student activities in a smooth 
manner over offline and online platforms.
Student Activity Council (SAC)
1.	
Board of Art & Culture
2. Board of Literary Affairs
3. Board of Student Sports
4. Board of Student Welfare
5. Board of Hostel Affairs
Academic and Co-Curricular Activity Council 
(ACAC)
1.	
Board of Academic Interactions 
2. Board of Co-curricular affairs
3. Board of Departmental Society
4. Board of Innovation and Entrepreneurship
5. Board of Career Development
6. Society for Alumni Affairs
Student Fests & Events
BOARD OF LITERARY AFFAIRS
The activities of the board are as under:
•
Aarambh: PHEME presented AARAMBH, where 
we prepared a fun questionnaire for freshers to 
express their feelings and experiences of getting 
into an IIT.
•
Intra-Club Poster and caption writing 
competitions: To improve writing and designing 
skills among club members, we organized various 
caption writing and poster designing competitions 
on different occasions and festivals.
•
Freshanza’21 Magazine: Published the magazine 
digitally for the Freshanza event organized by SWC, 
which entrapped all the essence of the event.
•
Republic Day Article Writing Competition (open 
to all): The board has organized an Article writing 
competition for all IITJ Students with a prize worth 
2.2k on the occasion of Republic Day.
•
Intern Central: To provide insightful knowledge and 
a roadmap to intern-seeking students by seniors, 
the board organized a show called “Intern Central,” 
where the board called seniors who got interns to 
share their experiences.
•
Cover IITJ-related news: From time to time, the 
board covered news related to our campus, like 
NIRF Ranking of IITJ, Dacby, Yule ball organized by 
litsoc, etc.
•
Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav Article Writing 
Competition: The board organized an article 
writing competition that was open to all IITJ 
students on the occasion of “Azadi ka Amrit 
Mahotsav,” of prize worth:3.5k which was judged by 
Dr. Prasenjeet Tribuvan.
•
Pheme Website: Pheme to enhance its reach 
and for providing blog posts, news, articles, and 
information, and interaction to build a website, 
though the website is running on a temporary 
domain,but as we get budget, we will launch it 
officially.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Quiz Society
•
India Quiz: Quiz Society conducted the India Quiz 
on the occasion of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsava, which 
was presented to a large audience at LHC.
•
Spandan Quizzes: For the Inter-Hostel fest, the 
board organized a total of three quizzes:
•
Prometeo Quiz: For the Institute’s flagship 
technology event, the Quiz Society was given 
responsibility to organize TechBuzz, a tech quiz 
which received participants from all over the 
world. An informal quiz was also organized for the 
students present on campus.
•
Constitution Quiz: The board organized a quiz 
on the diversity and constitution of India on the 
occasion of Constitution Day
•
Bootup Quiz: The Bootup Quiz, which is meant 
to be the freshers’ first quizzing experience, was 
organized and saw good participation from all 
students.
•
Valentine’s Day Quiz: Keeping the annual tradition 
alive, the board organized a valentine’s day quiz 
which was part of a collaboration with the Literature 
Society.
•
Quiz Bootcamp: To find emerging quizzing talents 
from the first year students and grow our Instagram
Page, the board organized a bootcamp which 
consisted of students framing 1 question per day 
for 30 days which were then uploaded to our 
Instagram.
•
General Quiz: This was the first quiz organized 
completely by the freshers which helped them gain 
valuable feedback from the experienced members.
Literature Society
•
Devils Pen

A halloween’s day event, where the board invited 
halloween themed entries such as poems/articles/
stories and posted them on our Instagram page.
•
Exordium

The introductory session for batch 2021. The 
event saw a participation of almost 200 students. 
The event was themed on Norse mythology and 
involved various word games and literature related 
competitions.
MELA Quiz, Cricket Quiz
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

•
Regional Language Poetry

On the occasion of ‘National Mother Language Day’, 
the board invited entries in various languages and 
posted them on our instagram page for a social 
media based competition. There was a participation 
by 34 students and the event saw an overall 
interaction of more than 6000 accounts over 
Instagram.
•
Constitution Day Debate

It was a 3 day debating extravaganza wherein 
the freshers displayed their debating skills. As 
the theme suggests, the topics were based on 
the laws and clauses mentioned in the Indian 
Constitution. The students were full of enthusiasm 
and participated with the utmost zeal. Winners were 
awarded with various cash prizes and everyone 
had a great debating experience. There were a 
lot of first time debaters who took further interest 
in debating and were eager to be a part of the 
“debating club”- Literature Society.
•
Model United Nations

This session was taken to instill an interest and 
build a culture of MUN among students. MUN is 
the perfect platform to discuss issues of national 
and international importance. Students participating 
can hone their communication skills and evolve as 
diplomats and bureaucrats. MUN is a 2-3 day event 
wherein each participant, formally called delegate, 
represents a country and talks about their stand on 
a given agenda, and at the end propose possible 
solutions to curb the same.
•
Republic Day Debate: This event was organized by 
the Literature Society with the purpose of instilling 
curiosity amongst the students about Indian polity 
and world democracy. Students who participated 
in the event got a hands-on experience of a 
formal Parliamentary style debate. It was a vast 
resource of new knowledge and visions about 
India’s democratic policies. The winning team was 
awarded prize money.
•
Valentines Day Event (Jointly With Quiz Society): 
This was a jointly hosted event by the Literature 
Society and the Quiz Society. Scheduled on 14th 
Feb, students took part in the quiz conducted and 
the fun activities organized. Students were required 
to take part in pairs. Activities included whose line 
is it anyway, in which participants were required 
to create eye-catching lines based on a picture 
presented.
•
Spandan (JAM, Word Games, Stand Up, Poetry, 
Debate): Literature society was responsible for 
coordinating 6 events in the literature section of 
our inter-hostel fest: Spandan. Like every year, 
Spandan was organized to bring out the zeal 
and competition between the students among 
themselves. Spandan was inaugurated with an EDM 
night performance by professional DJs. The 2-day 
long fest saw great competitions among students 
and hostels. Students challenged their batch 
mates, seniors, and juniors in all the domains. The 
competitions were a blend of cultural and arts along 
with some informal competitions too. Some of the 
competitions include dance, singing, acting, poetry, 
jam, painting, fashion show, movie spoof, and many 
more. Huge participation was witnessed in events 
like Antakshari, Dumb charades, and others.
•
Hindi Debate (Collaboration with IIT BHU): 
Literature Society in collaboration with The 
Literature Society of IIT BHU organized a session 
on Hindi Debate in order to initiate a culture of 
Hindi debating in the institute. The session was later 
followed by a practice debate to help students get 
acquainted with the idea of Hindi Debate.
•
Fandom Event: LIT’s Chamber of Witchcraft 
and Wizardry 2.0 was the second installment of 
the Harry Potter Fandom Event that was held 
last year. The event started off with the Sorting
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Event Date
Teacher’s day events recorded 5 September 2021
Sangam music video recording 9 November 2021
Recorded Diwali celebrations and events in campus 4 November 2021
Recorded the events of the convocation 19 November 2021
Made a farewell video on the occasion of convocation 19 November 2021
Made a video of Fresher's orientation 2k21 22 November 2021
Conducted interviews for Freshers Introduction video 2k21 15 December 2021
Conducted competition on the occasion of new year : ABLAZE (open for all) 25 December 2021
Conducted introductory session of Frame-X for freshers 2k21 9 January 2022
Freshers Introduction video 2k21 released on youtube 9 January 2022
First video editing session conducted : Adobe Premiere Pro 11 January 2022
Conducted freshers competition 2k22 13 January 2022
‘Nostalgic moments’ series started on instagram which showcases IITJ culture and
provides glimpses of past fests such as spandan, ignus etc. December - February
Ceremony, which was held in the online mode, 
to sort everyone in their respective houses. We 
had a series of competitions planned following 
the sorting ceremony. The first event in line was 
the Quiz Competition, whose first round was held 
in the online mode followed by the final round 
in LHC. Students participated with enthusiasm 
and it was an amazing experience for them as 
well as for the organizing team. After this we 
had a Wizarding Debate Competition, which was 
again, held in the online mode. It was a healthy 
debate as students were eager to prove their 
point and win the competition for their house. 
The following competition was the Treasure Hunt, 
which saw maximum participation from students. 
The organizing team hid the clues throughout the 
college and students, with their house teams, had 
to find all the clues and the team that finished first 
was the winner. The entire event was concluded 
with Yule Ball, a literary dance night that was all 
about dancing and a literary event alongside, where 
we declared the champions from individual houses.
•

Alongside, we had an ongoing Fan-fiction writing 
competition. Students came up with amazing After 
Battle of Hogwarts stories. Also, during the event, 
the organizing committee streamed the Harry Potter 
Series in LHC 110 to ignite people’s interest in the 
wizarding world and also to help the existing Harry 
Potter fans brush up on the details. Overall the 
event was a huge success.
Board of Art and Culture
Frame-X Progress Report: The Film-making and Video 
editing society conducted a number of events during 
the academic year 2021-22. The following events were 
conducted within the society during the academic year 
2021-22. Apart from all the listed events the society also 
covered all the different events that took place within 
the campus and also collaborated with other societies 
under BAC.
The vital statistics of Library for FY 2021-22, are as follow:
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Event Date
Second video editing session conducted : Adobe After Effects 18 January 2022
Class Song Shoot & Release 14 May 2022
Campus Tour Shoot & Release 12 July 2022
Freshers’ Short film Making Challenge 10 June 2022
The following videos were released during the 
academic year 2021-22.
•
Freshers’ Introduction 2021
•
Freshers’ Competition Entries
•
Class Song’22
•
Campus Tour Video 2022
Ateliers
•
Introduction Session: The motive of this session 
was to introduce the Fine Arts and Crafts Society 
to the new students of IIT Jodhpur, and interact 
with them in order to know their interests and 
expectations from the society
•
Open Theme competition: It was held from 31st 
December’21 to 2nd January 2022. Candidates 
were free to create an artwork on any theme, with 
no restriction related to medium of art whatsoever, 
in order to bring out creativity and maximum 
participation. The artworks were uploaded on our 
official instagram page, and a 2 way judgment was 
made based on the engagement of the artwork on 
our page and their skills by our panel of judges.
•
Competition Poster
•
Sketching Session: The session was organized 
in order to give students an insight into the basics 
of sketching, materials used, different techniques 
involved like hatching, scribbling, stippling, 
contour lines etc., in order to master the art form. 
Our alumni, Pawan Kishor was invited to take this 
session.
•
Soft Pastel Session: The session was aimed 
to introduce the students into the basics of soft 
pastels, how to use them the right way in order to 
create some beautiful artworks through various 
techniques.
•
Republic day competition: Organized on the 
occasion of 73rd Republic Day. The theme of the 
competition was ‘Tiranga’, where participants were 
to create an art work using only the three colors of 
the Indian national flag.
•
Events hosted by Society in Spandan week
•
Face Painting Competition: Participants had to 
paint their partner’s faces, based on the theme 
“Binge Watch”.
•
Soft pastel competition
•
Charcoal painting
•
Costume Designing
•
Sketching Competition
•
Tshirt Painting
Dramatics Society Annual Report
•

Teacher’s Day Skit: On the occasion of Teacher’s 
Day’21, the Dramatics Society performed an online 
skit, ‘The Talk Show’. It’s video is available on the 
instagram page of the Dramatics Society.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

•
Online Meetings
1. 
Interaction Meeting: The first online meeting 
with the new batch of students was an 
interaction meeting.
2. 
Theatre Basics: Second meeting was focused 
on the basics of theatre. The students also had 
to perform some on the spot tasks.

Offline sessions on voice modulation, improv 
etc. were also organized.
Sangam Progress Report
•

Introductory Session: The music society forms an 
integral part of the diverse life on campus. On the 
arrival of the new batch to the college, the society 
held its introductory session for the freshers and 
enthusiastically welcomed them. They were made 
familiar with the club, and events held by them and 
were encouraged to audition for the same to create 
some of the best, unforgettable memories.
•

Auditions: This was the official process for the 
selections of Music Society 2022.The Auditions 
were conducted in online mode and consisted of 
two rounds. The first one was “Video Submission” 
round where students were asked to submit two 
videos, one of them singing along with a backtrack 
and one without backtrack. The students cracking 
this round were called up for video interviews which 
was the last round of the selection process. A team 
of 19 students from different programs was selected 
for Music Society last year, which is always open for 
inclusions.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

•

Music Video (When We 
Feel Young): Reconnecting 
with your younger self and 
memories, with the help of 
music. With the feeling of 
nostalgia, a delightful music 
video of the song when we 
feel young was created. 
The music video was made 
on campus, in collaboration 
with frameX that helped in 
cinematography.
•

Live Online Performance 
(Ombre App): Ombre App 
in collaboration with Sangam, 
Music Society, IIT Jodhpur 
presented Soul Strings 
where Harshita Kalani, a core 
member of Sangam performed 
live. The performance left 
everyone vibing with the 
beautiful Harmony and a never 
ending melody.
•

Music Video (Vo 
Dekhnay Mei): 
Continuing the 
streak of online 
performances, 
society released its 
phenomenal cover 
of vo dekhnay mein. 
This one was made 
when the members 
were at their 
respective homes. 
It was especially 
appreciated greatly 
by the new batch of 
freshers.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

•
Republic Day Music Videos: Celebrating the 73rd republic day, new members started their journey. There were 
two wonderful performances by the freshers on this auspicious occasion. One group sang bharat ki beti, while 
the other group did the song o desh mere.
•
Valentines Day Medley: On the occasion of love month, we released ‘Valentine’s special mixtape’ which 
included various romantic melodies for the audience to enjoy and fall in love with. In this event, almost the entire 
music society participated. Seniors guided juniors on various things and by working together, they came up with 
6 ongs. These were combined into one video which was live shown on youtube. Songs performed were ek 
ajnabee x jab koi baat, aradhike, sab tera x mast magan, you and me x darkhast, just maath mathalli, aahatein.
•

Performances in 
Informal Nights 
of Prometeo 22: 
Sangam, the music 
society performed 
in open mic held 
in the annual 
tech-fest of the 
college, prometeo. 
The performance 
was conducted 
rather informally 
and relished 
by everyone 
present. It was 
a mesmerizing 
performance.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

•

Extravaganza: A Music Society Exclusive (Spandan 22): Extravaganza is a music-society exclusive event 
held in Spandan every year and like every year, it was a grand success this year as well. It consisted of 
over 10 terrific performances that managed to captivate everyone. It was an amazing and memorable 
experience for the members of the club as well as the audience who enjoyed thoroughly.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

•

Music Video 
(Zehnaseeb): Doing 
one last performance 
online, freshers once 
again came up with 
a soulful music video 
of song zehnaseeb. 
In this one, seniors 
showed confidence 
in juniors where 
they implemented 
what they had 
learned. Starting 
from song selection 
to video production, 
everything was done 
by the juniors.
•

Jamming sessions 
Throughout The 
Year: Jamming 
sessions are informal 
music sessions 
where members 
come together 
and sing without 
preparations. They 
are fun, light-headed 
and help in coming 
up with harmonies, 
improvisation of 
songs, connecting, 
etc. These are held 
now and then, as and 
when members are 
available.
•
Introductory session: The ﬁrst meet of shutterbugs 
with freshers2021 was an introductory session 
taken on 27th December in online mode . Session 
was basically for introducing the club to freshers 
like how the club works and what freshers will get 
from this club.
•
Secretary (Shivansh Gahlaut), Joint secretaries 
(Rushil Patel and Prajjwal Chand) and Core
members of the club were present in the session. 
Below are some pics of the session.
•
“I Do” photography: So, this was an open theme 
competition, which happened on 5th of January 
2022 which was Organized by Shutterbugs with 
a prize worth Rs 6000. This competition was 
organized so that interested students could get to 
know about their talent and how creative they are,
Shutterbugs Progress Report
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

could learn from the same, which would definitely 
work to grow the club.
•
Photo of the week: An event organized to 
encourage people to take aesthetic photos of any 
scene possible, i.e, try to see even common day 
to day scenes in a different point of view and try to 
capture the same.
•
Basics of photography: The basics of the 
photography session were held in online mode 
22 Jan 2022 In the presence of the shutterbug's 
team Shivansh Gahlaut (Secretary) , Rushil Patel and 
Prajjwal Chand(Joint secretary) and Core members, 
they taught everything about photography and the 
types of photography. Many of them improved their 
basic skills after this session.
•
Republic day competition / Jewels of india: 
On the occasion of Republic Day, Shutterbugs 
organized a competition named ‘Jewels of India’ 
whose theme was to capture creative photographs 
showing our Tricolor flag. A lot of beautiful entries 
were there. After the judgment by the team, top 3 
photos were selected as winning entries.
•
Photo Walk: On an early morning with pleasant 
clouds, the Shutterbugs team organized a fun filled
photo walk to the hills near the campus, which is 
famous here among students with the name ‘Kali 
Pahadi’. Along with the Secretary(Shivansh Gahlaut), 
Joint Secretary(Rushil Patel) and members of the 
Core Team, many ‘shutterbugs’ from the first year 
joined this making the number to around 60. After 
a track on the hills, there was a wait for the sunrise. 
Till that, the Shutterbugs team made groups of 
the students and gave one camera to each group, 
and reminded them about the basics of camera. 
Photographers from the first year were very excited 
for the sun to rise. They were ready with settings to 
capture the moment, and the sun rose beyond the 
hills. Freshers enjoyed capturing the sunrise, nearby 
hills, buildings and also our beautiful campus from a 
distance.
•
Offline Camera Workshop: On the night of May 
27, 2022, the team of Shutterbugs organized a 
workshop on the use of cameras. In this workshop, 
many ‘shutterbugs’ from UG as well as PG students 
were there. The team taught them about the basics 
of photography, DSLR cameras, exposure triangle, 
and various camera settings.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

The Society of Alumni Affairs (SAA), IIT Jodhpur, 
envisions building a mutually beneficial relationship with 
the Alumni of the Institute by purposeful engagement 
for the betterment of the student community. The 
society co-organized the following events along with 
the Office of Alumni Relations
•
Ask an Alumnus Sessions / Alumni Townhalls
•
Alumni connect session for UG orientation
•
Alumni connect session for PG orientation
•
Alumni Induction Dinner
•
Annual Alumni Day
BOARD OF CO-CURRICULAR AFFAIRS
The Board of co-curricular affairs envisions moving 
forward the technical and scientific culture of the 
college. The board focuses on the active participation 
of college students in all national and international 
technical contests or events.
Our key focus areas include:
•
Allow students to explore and strengthen talents 
outside of academics.
•
Allow students to build friends and participate in 
group activities outside of the tight circle of the 
regular classroom.
•
Help to build confidence and self-esteem in 
students
•
Provide a way to keep students supervised outside 
of college hours.
•
Help build skills that are not necessarily taught in 
the classroom but are crucial for the future.
Activities under BCCA in the academic year 
2021-22
•
Held various contests within the societies.
•
Participated in ABU Robocon 2022 for the 1st time 
and qualified for round 2 with an impeccable score 
of 100.
•
Participated in SAE E-BAJA, the first time building an 
electric car on campus.
•
Participated in Inter IIT TechMeet 10.0 and scored 
the best rank among all 2nd gen IITs and 8th 
overall.
•
Involved in organizing Prometeo’22, the annual 
technical and entrepreneurship fest of IIT Jodhpur 
after a harsh lockdown of 1.5 years
•
Organized club sessions both online and offline 
mode.
•
Held offline workshops so the students could have 
a hands-on experience using new technologies.
•
SAE BAJA Team: Participated in SAE E-BAJA, the 
first time building an electric car on campus.
Society of Alumni Affairs (SAA)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

•

Inter IIT Tech Meet: Participated in Inter IIT TechMeet 10.0 and scored the best rank among all 2nd gen IITs and 
8th overall.
•

Robocon Team: Participated in ABU Robocon 2022 for the 1st time and qualified for round 2 with an impeccable 
score of 100.
•

Tree Plantation Drive: On the eve of 75th Independence Day, with a motive to do something 
beneficial for our country, RAC IIT Jodhpur conducted a Tree Plantation Drive. Over 50 volunteers, 
appreciating the value of trees, planted roughly 40 “Karanji” trees on the IIT Jodhpur campus and 
committed to care for those plants. This event would also boost the amount of flora at IIT Jodhpur. 
RAC IIT Jodhpur wishes to thank all participants for helping to make this event a big success.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

•

Pankh Udaan: Creating awareness about Menstrual Health and Hygiene and diseases caused by it 
by Rotaract Club of IIT Jodhpur, RID 3053. In the era of the internet, the main objective of Pankh Udaan 
is to raise awareness through the use of social media. The primary goal was to raise awareness about 
disease caused if not proper menstrual hygiene is not followed . A total of 5 Rotaract club volunteers 
came together to research the content of various topics and design the posters, which were to be 
posted on Instagram The post has received over 100+ views and 40+ likes and further counting. The 
goal is to reach out to as many people as possible and dispel myths about these topic, which Rotaract 
Club is doing admirably.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

•
Webinar on- Importance of Diet,Exercise and 
Vaccine: It focused on maintaining health during 
the global pandemic organized by Rotaract Club 
of IIT Jodhpur, RID 3053. The Rotaract club at IIT 
Jodhpur hosted a webinar titled "Importance of 
Diet, Exercise, and Vaccine," which debunked 
vaccination myths, provided advice on how to 
maintain a healthy diet, and finally discussed the 
benefits of exercise. The goal of this session was to 
make people aware of their health and assist them 
in taking the necessary steps to maintain it during 
the global pandemic. The speaker was Dr. Prakash 
Jakhar (Senior Doctor at IIT Jodhpur). The session 
was held online, and Dr. Prakash even addressed 
the attendees' concerns. Around 20 people 
attended the session, and they were grateful to Dr. 
Prakash for delivering such a well-informed talk.
•
Finance Wellness Workshop: Creating awareness 
about proper financial behaviour organized by 
Rotaract Club of IIT Jodhpur, RID 3053. The Rotaract 
club at IIT Jodhpur hosted a workshop on Personal 
Finance on 10th October. The speaker was Karthik 
CS (Co-Founder @ Knowise). Various investment 
strategies were discussed. Around 30 participants 
benefited from the workshop.
•
E-Safar (A Virtual Tour): On the occasion of “World 
Tourism Day,” RAC IIT Jodhpur, in collaboration 
with RAC Vizag City, arranged a virtual tour of eight 
locations, including Goa, Rajasthan, and Bihar. This 
virtual trip was indeed enjoyed by more than just 30 
virtual tourists.
•
Run for your Dil: Focused on developing a healthy 
lifestyle organized by Rotaract Club of IIT Jodhpur, 
RID 3053; Rotaract Club of Curchorem-Sanvordem, 
RID 3170 and 31 other clubs from all over India. On 
the occasion of World Heart Day, RAC IIT Jodhpur, 
in collaboration with other clubs, organised a 
28-day Bingo Fitness Challenge titled “Run for 
your Dil.” In order to promote a healthy lifestyle, 
participants were required to complete small tasks 
such as running or working out on a daily basis, 
to get rid of unhealthy behaviour. This fitness 
challenge drew over 200 participants.
•
Webinar on- Suicide Prevention Day: Emphasize 
the value of life organized by Rotaract Club of 
IIT Jodhpur, RID 3053. The Rotaract club at IIT 
Jodhpur hosted a webinar titled "Creating Hope 
Through Action" on the occasion of World Suicide 
Prevention Day. The speaker was Mr. Prasad 
Gadkari (Consultant Clinical Psychologist & Student 
Counsellor at IIT Jodhpur). The session suggested 
some measures for taking good care of mental 
health, gave an overview on warning signs of 
suicide ideation and some tips to deal with suicidal 
thoughts. There were over 45 participants who 
benefitted from the session.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

To celebrate the unity in diversity of our nation and maintain 
and strengthen the fabric of traditionally existing emotional 
bonds between the people of our country, to showcase the 
rich heritage and culture, customs, and traditions the following 
activities were organized by the EBSB club IIT Jodhpur India
Regular webinars and awareness talks are organized to 
promote the theme of the EBSB program. To facilitate greater 
participation of students; various activities are planned to be 
organized under the ‘Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat’ Programmed 
depending on the interest and skills of every individual like 
dancing, drama skits, presentations, poetry, anchoring etc.
Republic day
Our first identity is determined by our nationality if humanity 
is our first religion. Any prejudices we may have towards 
religion, geography, society, or politics will not be able to 
trump our Indian identity. On the occasion of Republic day, our 
team participated in various events like singing and poetry.
Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat, 
IIT Jodhpur
Webinar: Geographical and cultural diversity
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Monthly Webinar organized by EBSB club, IIT Jodhpur 
and the title of the webinar was “Geographical and 
cultural diversity”. Dr. Salim Mir (Assistant professor, DU) 
stunned everyone with his words and knowledge. He 
inspired all of us to be united and to understand and 
respect others feelings, living habits, food, and cultures.
Poetry & Essay competition under “Azadi Ka Amrit 
Mahotsav” organized by EBSB IIT Jodhpur
EBSB IIT Jodhpur organized competitions to celebrate 
Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. It is an initiative of the 
Government of India to celebrate and commemorate 
75 years of independence and the glorious history of
its people, culture, and achievements. This Mahotsava 
is dedicated to the people of India who have been 
instrumental in bringing India thus far in its evolutionary 
journey.
In this event, there was two competitions:
Ambedkar Jayanti
Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar, popularly known as Baba 
Saheb, was a prominent 20th-century Indian politician, 
lawyer, social reformer, and economist who is most 
known for having fought for the rights of the Dalits, or 
the country’s “untouchables. Baba saheb Ambedkar 
was responsible for establishing the “Constitution of 
India.” He was a well-known statesman who spoke up 
for socially underprivileged groups. On the occasion 
of Ambedkar Jayanti, our EBSB team member Furkan 
Ansari deliver sensational Poetry.
Independence day: Azadi Ka 75th Amrit 
Mahotsava
The Government of India has launched the Azadi Ka 
Amrit Mahotsav to honor and remember 75 years of 
growth in India and the illustrious past of its people, 
culture, and accomplishments. All that is progressive 
about India’s sociocultural, political, and economic 
character is embodied by Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. 
This Mahotsav is devoted to the Indian people who, in 
addition to playing a key role in the country’s progress 
to this point, also possess the strength and capacity to 
realize Prime Minister Modi’s goal of enacting India 2.0,
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

which is inspired by the spirit of Atmanirbhar Bharat.
On this great occasion, EBSB team Participated with 
great enthusiasm. The Poem by Shreyash Gupta on the 
theme of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao was heart-tearing 
and sensational.
India’s royal state of Rajasthan is renowned for its
extensive cultural legacy. Folk dances are significant 
because they tell stories in a distinctive and engrossing 
way while also being aesthetically attractive. Our EBSB 
team members Shaily Singh & Shivangi Tripathi did the 
duo dance performance, which forced the audience to 
jump on their seats.
Apart from that, Rachana did the Bharat Natyam, 
which is one of the most famous Indian classical 
dance styles, and is thought to be the ancestor of 
many other Indian classical dance styles.
As we know, one of life’s most basic necessities 
is water. Without water, life would not even be 
remotely feasible. One could argue that while
people can survive without food, they cannot in 
any way survive without water. So to deliver the 
message of water saving and proper utilization of 
water, on the eve of the Independence day event, 
Our EBSB skit team did a Mime, and the theme was 
mime was Save Water. The Audience’s eyes got 
teary, and a huge round of applause was creating a 
vibration in Building.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

EBSB IIT Jodhpur Participants with faculties on the Evening of Independence day
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Student WellBeing
The Student Wellbeing Committee (SWC) has been an 
integral part of IIT Jodhpur since 2008. It takes care of 
the mental wellbeing and overall happiness factor of 
all the students of IIT Jodhpur. Every year, it strives to 
ensure that every student gets to know the Institute in 
intricate details and to help absorb all the opportunities 
that the Institute creates. It works towards making the 
transition of new Students from their homes to the 
Institute a memorable one. The objective of the Student 
Wellbeing Committee is to provide friendly support to 
the new students for their well-being during their stay 
on the campus and for their personal & professional 
developments. In essence, the Student Wellbeing 
Committee promotes the development of students 
along three aspects, namely: (1) Academic: It provides 
information about different academic programs of the 
Institute, and suggests efficient time management and 
study skills, (2) Extra-Curricular: It strives to develop 
talents in students, and encourages them to discover 
their extra-curricular interests/hobbies. Also, it provides 
an interface with the Institute activities, and provides 
a platform for interaction with the Institute; and (3) 
Personal: It provides a cushion against homesickness, 
and assists in adjusting to the new environment 
(including concerns and difficulties arising during 
their stay at the Institute) by providing personalised 
guidance. Also, it provides psycho-education and 
confidential referral services to students.
The team tries to ensure that IITJ is not just an institute, 
but a home away from home for the students. The 
Student Wellbeing Committee is headed by a Faculty 
Member, as the Chairperson, and ably supported by 
Faculty Members, Counsellor, Well-Being Moderator 
and two teams (UG and PG) of students. The student 
counsellor plays the role of growth coach and the 
well-being moderator is the primary contact for the 
students. They are available 24 x 7 especially the well 
being moderator who is available on the campus at the 
disposal of students.
In addition to the above, the Student Wellbeing 
Committee strives to:
(1) Maintain a ragging-free campus; 
(2) 
Help in organizing Orientation Program for new 
students to acquaint them with the Institute; 
(3) Organize lectures and trainings on:
 
(a) Stress management,
(b) Time management,
(c) Health care and hygiene,
(d) Substance Abuse,
(f) Cope with homesickness,
(g) Addiction and others, and
(h) motivational lectures by eminent speakers;
(4) Coordinate with YourDost for mental wellbeing of 
the students. And organizing workshops on the key 
issues faced by the students.
(5) Organize events for encouraging interaction 
among students of different years, and Staff and Faculty 
Members.
The details of the events organized by SWC are also 
mentioned on the website: http://swc.iitj.ac.in/. The 
following activities were conducted in the past year:
PG Activities (Sept, 2021 onwards)
Underneath the Stars
17th March 2022
This event was conducted to celebrate Happiness Day, 
for which a movie screening was done and the movie 
screened was “Chhichhore”. The message of the movie 
was to focus on your efforts and work each day to 
excel your skills or talent. It also focused on the journey 
through which you learn multiple things rather than just 
focusing on the success of the destination. It was the 
IITJ’s first ever Open-air Movie Screening.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Importance of Mental Wellbeing during the Pandemic
17th January 2022 
The session was organized virtually to help students to deal with the ongoing stress for dealing with uncertain life 
situations. Agenda of the webinar was to focus on the mental, physical and emotional well-being of the students. 
Tools were provided which they can use in their daily routine for a healthier and happier lifestyle.
Gratitude Day
19th March 2022
Postcards were distributed to students to express their 
gratitude to each other and cherish the happy moments 
they had at the campus. Evening was followed with 
fun and laughter by reminiscing the memories and 
appreciating each other.
Dusshera Celebration ‘Good 
over Evil’
15th October 2021
A bonfire to remember the victory of good over evil. 
Students gathered to share their ideas and stories to 
initiate conversations. It was an evening full of laughter 
and storytelling about their deeds to achieve or to get 
their tasks done in life.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

PG Orientation
A week full of various activities 
for the fresh batches. Getting 
back on campus after almost 
2yrs, and missing campus life, 
students seemed excited about 
the in-person orientation. Team 
organised various activities like 
plantation drives, mini marathons, 
informal sessions, interactive 
sessions, to introduce the 
batches to their seniors, campus 
infrastructure, and campus life. 
Orientation week helped the 
students to make themselves 
comfortable with the campus life 
and clear out their doubts about 
their courses, academic life, co-
curricular activities. Also, there were various activities for students to showcase 
their talent. Students were also rewarded with the prizes later on.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

UG Activities conducted 
for the AY 2021-22 
(Sep’21 onwards)
Freshanza - Jan 17,2022
Fresher’s organized by the UG team for the 
new batches. Students did organize various 
competitions where the talent of new batches 
can be show.cased. A virtual evening filled 
with poetry, dance, music, laughter and lots 
of fun
Gratitude day and 
Happiness day
An evening full of fun and laughter. Students wrote 
messages of gratitude for their classmates, friends, seniors, 
mentors, and others. Postcards were given to students, 
where they expressed their gratitude. The evening was 
followed up by a poetry and open mic to showcase their 
talent.
Connecto Patronum
An event which utilized the unique architecture of 
AirMeet. In an Airmeet, there are many tables (breakout 
rooms) and anyone can join any table to have a 
conversation with the people already sitting at the 
table. This is to promote conversations and encourage 
students to talk about their problems, interests and 
their lives with their peers. An initiative to encourage 
students to make interactions with others by helping 
them to share more and work on their growth.
Interactive sessions with UG 
team and new students
Interactive sessions were organized to discuss the 
experiences or challenges faced by the students. A 
discussion to help each other and come up with the 
solutions to overcome challenges.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Building Meaningful 
Relationships During College 
Life
(For UG and PG students)
Workshop and orientation was organized by YourDost 
to introduce students with the platform and how 
accessible it can be in their daily lives. Speaking to 
a counselor and seeking out professional help by
sitting in the comfort of their room. YourDost platform 
is providing professional help to students via text 
messages, video calling or voice calling. Students can 
sign-up at the portal at any time of their requirement 
and access the facility.
During the second day of their orientation, Ms. 
Jyotsna Sodhi, Counseling Psychologist, YourDost 
was present throughout the day. She took a workshop 
on maintaining meaningful relationships, she spoke 
about setting the tone and staying aware about the 
red flags while being part of the relationship. Later, she 
was available for the individual counseling sessions. 
Students did sign up for the individual sessions with her.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Career Development Cell
The Career Development Cell (CDC) aspires to provide 
comprehensive career counseling to IIT Jodhpur 
students’ during their academic involvement and 
after graduation. CDC performs various individual and 
collective activities relating to training and placement 
process planning, career development, counseling, 
competence/skill assessment, decision making. CDC 
fosters students’ abilities, competencies, and interests 
and assists them in developing professional skills, 
knowledge, and positive attitude to manage their career 
path. The entire placement process was conducted 
virtually with more than 200+ companies participated 
in the Placement Season 2021-2022. Some renowned 
companies that participated in the placements are 
Microsoft, Google, Deloitte, American Express, Housing, 
Gartner, Graviton Research Capital, Oracle, DE-Shaw, 
Arciesium, Oil India, Tata Consultancy Services, L&T 
Engineering, Maruti Suzuki, Amazon, Accenture, ZS 
Associates, Nippon Steel, Mahindra & Mahindra, Tata 
Consulting Services, Tata Elxsi and many more.
Key statistics from the season 2021-2022
•
200+ companies participated in Internship and 
Placement.
•
Total Number of offers – 373 offers
•
Total no. of students placed- 345 (B.Tech. – 172, 
Students, M.Tech.- 88 Students, M.Sc.- 29 student, 
MBA- 55)
•
B.Tech. placement percentage – 97%, M.Tech. – 
75%, M.Sc. -52%, MBA- 100%
•
Average salary offered to the B.Tech. Students – 
20.66 Lakhs, MTech. – 11.57 Lakhs, MBA- Rs. 13 
Lakhs
Activities in the season 2021-2022
•
Internship and placement planning
•
Individual/Group Career Counselling
•
Interaction Sessions with industry professionals
•
Effective Job Search Strategies
•
Soft Skills Training Sessions
•
Welcome/Introduction Sessions
•
Mock Interview Sessions	
 
IIT Jodhpur continues its endeavour to develop 
programmes and course pedagogy, providing both 
academic rigour and industry relevance. It has, over a 
period of time, become one of the preferred choices 
for recruiters owing to inter-disciplinary and industry-
aligned courses. Career Development Cell (CDC) 
partners with students and industry to succeed in 
finding life-long career fulfilment. The roles and profiles 
offered to students during this placement season is 
a testament of the diversified and relevant courses 
offered at IIT Jodhpur. In addition, we have successfully 
built coherent relationships with our campus partners 
and strive to improve the students’ as well as the 
recruiters’ experience year after year. The Institute 
has designed a curated capability programme to 
prepare students for the campus placement process. 
Throughout the year, the CDC at IIT Jodhpur organises 
career development workshops, mock interviews, 
leadership talks, soft skill training and personality 
development activities.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

B.Tech. Placed Unplaced Registered Placement %
Total 172 4 176 97.73%
Program Placed Unplaced Registered Placement %
SIOT 5 3 8 62.50%
Total 87 28 115 75.65%
Program Placed Unplaced Registered Placement%
Chemistry 12 8 20 60%
Digital Humanities 6 9 15 40%
Mathematics 2 5 7 29%
Total 29 36 56 52%
Program Placed Unplaced Registered Placement%
MBA Placed Unplaced Registered Placement %
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Academic Program Number of Registered Students
Preparatory 46
Registered Students in IIT Jodhpur
IIT Jodhpur has, as on 31 March 2022, a total of 3329 students registered in various programs offered by the 
Institute. The table and chart below depict the program-wise break-up of the registered students in the Institute.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

SOURCES OF FUNDS Current Year Previous Year
CORPUS/CAPITAL FUND 10,38,76,60,344 10,65,21,47,175
DESIGNATED/EARMARKED/ENDOWMENT FUNDS 73,43,55,374 37,40,02,715
CURRENT LIABILITIES & PROVISIONS 2,86,27,58,979 3,02,84,72,433
TOTAL 13,98,47,74,697 14,05,46,22,323
APPLICATION OF FUNDS Current Year Previous Year
FIXED ASSETS 11,80,26,08,734 11,19,43,06,213
Tangible Assets 11,52,53,20,568 11,11,12,88,414
Intangible Assets 4,24,35,128 5,77,97,274
Capital Works-in-Progress 23,48,53,038 2,52,20,524
CURRENT ASSETS 2,07,59,59,358 2,42,06,31,222
LOANS, ADVANCES & DEPOSITS 10,62,06,605 43,96,84,889
TOTAL 13,98,47,74,697 14,05,46,22,323
Financial Position
Balance Sheet as on 31 March 2022
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Notes

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
NH 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur 342 037
Phone: +91-291-280 1161 | publications@iitj.ac.in
Website: www.iitj.ac.in