SOURCE_PDF: 5ba37023456f_Non-Teaching-Staff-Members-Advertisement--IITJ-OR_NT_-2024-25-CA-58-638780080006143547.pdf

Name of the post : Chartered Accountant (on Contract)
Number of post : 01
Essential Qualification : The candidate should be a Qualified Chartered Accountant
(CA) from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India
(ICAI).
Desirable Qualification : Graduation Degree in Commerce/Management with
Specialization in Finance.
Age limit : 32 years as on closing date of application
Consolidated Emoluments : Rs. 50,000/- per month consolidated
Accommodation : Hostel accommodation at IIT Jodhpur Campus (subject to
availability) (Charges applicable).
Duration/Tenure of
appointment : The appointment for the above contractual positions will be
initially for One year, which can be further extended up to a
maximum of three years subject to satisfactory performance.
Job Description : All work related to Accounting, Preparation of all Financial
reports, Preparation of Annual Accounts. Checking and
Finalization of Utilization Certificate. Taxation related
Activities (TDS, 15 CA/CB and GST). Any other work assigned
by the Competent Authority from time to time.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Office of Recruitment (Non-Teaching)
Admin Block (East), Nagaur Road, Karwar 342030, Jodhpur
ADVERTISEMENT FOR A CHARTERED ACCOUNTANT (CA)
(POST ON CONTRACT)
IIT Jodhpur intends to engage a Chartered Accountant (CA) initially for a period of one
year on full time basis. The post is temporary and is on consolidated salary basis. The details 
are as under:
Other Information:
Candidates trained in computer applications will be given preference. The desirous
candidates having requisite qualifications and fulfilling other eligibility conditions may apply 
for the post latest by 06 June 2024.

1. Interested candidate who fulfills the above requirement must apply in the prescribed form online
with all supporting documents through online mode (portal) only. Last date of submission of
online application shall be 06 June 2024. Applications received through any other mode or without
supporting documents will not be acceptable and summarily rejected. The link of online
application is erponline.iitj.ac.in.
The application which will be completed (frozen) shall only be considered and same can be
downloaded till 08 June 2024.
2. Selected candidates shall not have claim on any regular position and shall not be bestowed any
of the privileges like Housing, Medical Facility and Other benefits available to the regular
employees of the Institute.
3. Applicants are advised to ensure, before appearing for the post, that they possess the minimum
essential qualification and experience laid down for the post. Qualification obtained has to be
from recognized University/Institute. Eligibility in terms of age, qualification and experience of a
candidate shall be considered as on the last date of application.
4. Interested candidates may also in their own interest ensure that they fulfill the eligibility
conditions. Ineligible candidates will not be allowed to appear for Written Test /interview.
Verification of documents will be done before Written Test /interview.
5. In case of large number of applicants, the Competent Authority, IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to
shortlist candidates by adopting appropriate criteria.
6. The number of vacancies indicated in the notification is tentative. IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to
increase or decrease or NOT to fill any of the posts advertised.
7. No TA/DA will be paid for attending the Written Test /Interview.
8. In case of any inadvertent mistake in the process of selection, which may be detected at any stage
even after issue of the appointment letter, the Institute reserves the right to modify, withdraw or
cancel any communication made to the Applicants.
9. After joining the service of the Institute, the person(s) will have to abide by the Rules,
Regulations, Ordinances, Statutes and Act of the Institute applicable from time to time. He/ She
may be assigned any duty within or outside the Institute depending upon the exigency of the
work.
10. The Institute shall verify the antecedents or documents submitted by a person at the time of
appointment or during the tenure of the service. In case, it is detected that the documents
submitted by the candidates are fake, or the person has a clandestine antecedents or background
and has suppressed the said information, then his/her services shall be terminated forthwith and
legal action may be initiated against such candidates/employees.
11. No interim correspondence whatsoever will be entertained from the candidates.
12. Canvassing in any form or bringing in any influence political or otherwise will be a
disqualification for the post.
13. In case of any dispute/ambiguity that may occur in the process of selection, the decision of
the Institute shall be final.
14. For a query related to advertisement of the post, applicant may send e-mail on
recruitment@iitj.ac.in.
However, enquiry/queries related to eligibility for the post/interpretation of rules or forwarding
of CV will not be entertained.
General Instructions to the applicants:
Registrar