SOURCE_URL: http://www.iitj.ac.in/cete/en/phd-program

Advertisement for Admission to PhD Program The Centre for Education & Technology for Education (CETE) at IIT Jodhpur invites applications for its PhD program. The PhD program is a key pillar in CETE’s vision of providing a pathway for scholars to conduct research and develop the teaching and learning technologies of the future, analyze large-scale educational data, gain skills in educational data analytics, and create innovative curricula and resources for teaching and learning. Graduates will be able to pursue careers in university research and teaching as well as technology leadership roles at various levels of academic, industry, government and non-government organizations. Check out the advertisement and application details here. PhD Advertisement PhD Advertisement PhD Shortlist for SoP (Sem II 2025 Admissions) can be found here. 331 KB
Advertisement for Admission to PhD Program The Centre for Education & Technology for Education (CETE) at IIT Jodhpur invites applications for its PhD program. The PhD program is a key pillar in CETE’s vision of providing a pathway for scholars to conduct research and develop the teaching and learning technologies of the future, analyze large-scale educational data, gain skills in educational data analytics, and create innovative curricula and resources for teaching and learning. Graduates will be able to pursue careers in university research and teaching as well as technology leadership roles at various levels of academic, industry, government and non-government organizations. Check out the advertisement and application details here. PhD Advertisement PhD Advertisement PhD Shortlist for SoP (Sem II 2025 Admissions) can be found here. 331 KB
Advertisement for Admission to PhD Program The Centre for Education & Technology for Education (CETE) at IIT Jodhpur invites applications for its PhD program. The PhD program is a key pillar in CETE’s vision of providing a pathway for scholars to conduct research and develop the teaching and learning technologies of the future, analyze large-scale educational data, gain skills in educational data analytics, and create innovative curricula and resources for teaching and learning. Graduates will be able to pursue careers in university research and teaching as well as technology leadership roles at various levels of academic, industry, government and non-government organizations. Check out the advertisement and application details here. PhD Advertisement
The Centre for Education & Technology for Education (CETE) at IIT Jodhpur invites applications for its PhD program. The PhD program is a key pillar in CETE’s vision of providing a pathway for scholars to conduct research and develop the teaching and learning technologies of the future, analyze large-scale educational data, gain skills in educational data analytics, and create innovative curricula and resources for teaching and learning. Graduates will be able to pursue careers in university research and teaching as well as technology leadership roles at various levels of academic, industry, government and non-government organizations. Check out the advertisement and application details here.
PhD Advertisement PhD Shortlist for SoP (Sem II 2025 Admissions) can be found here. 331 KB
PhD Advertisement PhD Shortlist for SoP (Sem II 2025 Admissions) can be found here. 331 KB
PhD Shortlist for SoP (Sem II 2025 Admissions) can be found here. 331 KB
A. Research Areas Applications are invited from candidates who are interested in working in the following areas (These areas may be updated every semester based on requirements): Technology-enhanced learning Learning Analytics Multimodal data in video-based learning environment Educational Game Design and Development AI-enabled Education Education-Technology Entrepreneurship Detailed information about the Faculty Members and their research areas can be obtained from the Center’s website at iitj.ac.in/cete. B. Application Procedure This is a rolling advertisement , and the Cut-off date/Application Deadline for the Fall Semester is 20 April and that for Spring Semester is 20 October . Applicants belonging to GEN-UR, GEN-EWS, and OBC categories are required to pay a processing fee of Rs. 300 online, while SC, ST, and PD applicants need to pay Rs.150 during the submission of their application forms. The application should be submitted ONLY via the online portal. Hardcopy of the application need not be sent. In case of any query with respect to online application, applicants may contact the Office of Automation (Academics) ( oa_automation@iitj.ac.in ). Other general queries may be directed to the PhD Program Coordinator, Dr. Deepak Saxena, at pgc_convener@cete.iitj.ac.in . Applicants shortlisted for the admission process will be required to bring the final submitted application form duly signed along with copies of all educational testimonials at the time of admission. C. Eligibility Criteria The eligibility criteria prescribed below are the absolute minimum for being considered. CETE may use higher performance criteria if the number of applications is high. The relaxation for SC/ST/PD candidates in the qualifying degree marks is as per Ministry of Education rules. (i) Candidates admitted in the PhD Program in Regular Mode shall not be a registered student in any other academic program in India or abroad, and shall not be a full-time or part-time employee of any organization in India or abroad. (ii) The applicant must have a Master’s degree in engineering, education technology, pharmacy, agricultural science, science, humanities, social sciences, management, design or equivalent with at least 60% marks or at least 6.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST/PD), OR Bachelor’s degree of minimum four-year duration in engineering or science or medicine or pharmacy or agricultural science or veterinary science or equivalent with at least 70% marks or at least 7.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (65% for SC/ST/PD). D. Financial Assistance Candidates admitted to Ph.D. Program (Regular) will be eligible for financial assistance as per the norms of IIT Jodhpur. (a) A candidate having B.Tech./B.S. (four-year program)/Master’s degree with GATE/NET(JRF)/NBHM (or equivalent) can have financial assistance as per MHRD norms/or equivalent applicable for non-science Departments. (b) The requirement of GATE is exempted for an applicant with M.Tech. or equivalent post-bachelor’s degree. E. Reservation Policy The norms of reservation for different categories shall be adopted as laid down by the Ministry of Education, Government of India.
Applications are invited from candidates who are interested in working in the following areas (These areas may be updated every semester based on requirements):
Technology-enhanced learning
Multimodal data in video-based learning environment
Educational Game Design and Development
AI-enabled Education
Education-Technology Entrepreneurship
Detailed information about the Faculty Members and their research areas can be obtained from the Center’s website at iitj.ac.in/cete.
This is a rolling advertisement , and the Cut-off date/Application Deadline for the Fall Semester is 20 April and that for Spring Semester is 20 October .
Applicants belonging to GEN-UR, GEN-EWS, and OBC categories are required to pay a processing fee of Rs. 300 online, while SC, ST, and PD applicants need to pay Rs.150 during the submission of their application forms. The application should be submitted ONLY via the online portal. Hardcopy of the application need not be sent.
In case of any query with respect to online application, applicants may contact the Office of Automation (Academics) ( oa_automation@iitj.ac.in ). Other general queries may be directed to the PhD Program Coordinator, Dr. Deepak Saxena, at pgc_convener@cete.iitj.ac.in .
oa_automation@iitj.ac.in
pgc_convener@cete.iitj.ac.in
Applicants shortlisted for the admission process will be required to bring the final submitted application form duly signed along with copies of all educational testimonials at the time of admission.
The eligibility criteria prescribed below are the absolute minimum for being considered. CETE may use higher performance criteria if the number of applications is high. The relaxation for SC/ST/PD candidates in the qualifying degree marks is as per Ministry of Education rules.
(i) Candidates admitted in the PhD Program in Regular Mode shall not be a registered student in any other academic program in India or abroad, and shall not be a full-time or part-time employee of any organization in India or abroad.
(ii) The applicant must have a
Master’s degree in engineering, education technology, pharmacy, agricultural science, science, humanities, social sciences, management, design or equivalent with at least 60% marks or at least 6.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST/PD),
Bachelor’s degree of minimum four-year duration in engineering or science or medicine or pharmacy or agricultural science or veterinary science or equivalent with at least 70% marks or at least 7.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (65% for SC/ST/PD).
Candidates admitted to Ph.D. Program (Regular) will be eligible for financial assistance as per the norms of IIT Jodhpur.
(a) A candidate having B.Tech./B.S. (four-year program)/Master’s degree with GATE/NET(JRF)/NBHM (or equivalent) can have financial assistance as per MHRD norms/or equivalent applicable for non-science Departments.
(b) The requirement of GATE is exempted for an applicant with M.Tech. or equivalent post-bachelor’s degree.
The norms of reservation for different categories shall be adopted as laid down by the Ministry of Education, Government of India.
Why PhD @ CETE? A Ph.D. in Education or EdTech can open up a range of job opportunities in various sectors. Here are some potential career paths for individuals with a Ph.D. in Education or EdTech: Faculty Member at Academic Institutions: With a Ph.D., one can pursue a career in academia as a member of the faculty in education or educational technology. Responsibilities typically include conducting research, teaching courses, mentoring students, and publishing scholarly articles. Researcher: Many organizations and institutions, including universities, research centers, and think tanks, hire Ph.D. graduates to conduct research on educational practices, learning technologies, instructional design, and related areas. A researcher investigates educational theories, design studies, collect and analyze data, and contribute to the advancement of knowledge in the field. Educational Consultant: As an educational consultant, one can work independently or with consulting firms to provide expert advice and guidance to educational institutions, government agencies, or private organizations. The candidate's expertise in education or EdTech can be valuable in areas such as curriculum development, instructional design, technology integration, and educational policy. Instructional Designer: Instructional designers often work in educational institutions, corporate training departments, or e-learning companies. They collaborate with subject matter experts to create engaging and interactive learning content using various technologies and instructional approaches. Apply Now
Why PhD @ CETE? A Ph.D. in Education or EdTech can open up a range of job opportunities in various sectors. Here are some potential career paths for individuals with a Ph.D. in Education or EdTech: Faculty Member at Academic Institutions: With a Ph.D., one can pursue a career in academia as a member of the faculty in education or educational technology. Responsibilities typically include conducting research, teaching courses, mentoring students, and publishing scholarly articles. Researcher: Many organizations and institutions, including universities, research centers, and think tanks, hire Ph.D. graduates to conduct research on educational practices, learning technologies, instructional design, and related areas. A researcher investigates educational theories, design studies, collect and analyze data, and contribute to the advancement of knowledge in the field. Educational Consultant: As an educational consultant, one can work independently or with consulting firms to provide expert advice and guidance to educational institutions, government agencies, or private organizations. The candidate's expertise in education or EdTech can be valuable in areas such as curriculum development, instructional design, technology integration, and educational policy. Instructional Designer: Instructional designers often work in educational institutions, corporate training departments, or e-learning companies. They collaborate with subject matter experts to create engaging and interactive learning content using various technologies and instructional approaches. Apply Now
Why PhD @ CETE? A Ph.D. in Education or EdTech can open up a range of job opportunities in various sectors. Here are some potential career paths for individuals with a Ph.D. in Education or EdTech: Faculty Member at Academic Institutions: With a Ph.D., one can pursue a career in academia as a member of the faculty in education or educational technology. Responsibilities typically include conducting research, teaching courses, mentoring students, and publishing scholarly articles. Researcher: Many organizations and institutions, including universities, research centers, and think tanks, hire Ph.D. graduates to conduct research on educational practices, learning technologies, instructional design, and related areas. A researcher investigates educational theories, design studies, collect and analyze data, and contribute to the advancement of knowledge in the field. Educational Consultant: As an educational consultant, one can work independently or with consulting firms to provide expert advice and guidance to educational institutions, government agencies, or private organizations. The candidate's expertise in education or EdTech can be valuable in areas such as curriculum development, instructional design, technology integration, and educational policy. Instructional Designer: Instructional designers often work in educational institutions, corporate training departments, or e-learning companies. They collaborate with subject matter experts to create engaging and interactive learning content using various technologies and instructional approaches.
A Ph.D. in Education or EdTech can open up a range of job opportunities in various sectors. Here are some potential career paths for individuals with a Ph.D. in Education or EdTech:
Faculty Member at Academic Institutions: With a Ph.D., one can pursue a career in academia as a member of the faculty in education or educational technology. Responsibilities typically include conducting research, teaching courses, mentoring students, and publishing scholarly articles.
Researcher: Many organizations and institutions, including universities, research centers, and think tanks, hire Ph.D. graduates to conduct research on educational practices, learning technologies, instructional design, and related areas. A researcher investigates educational theories, design studies, collect and analyze data, and contribute to the advancement of knowledge in the field.
Educational Consultant: As an educational consultant, one can work independently or with consulting firms to provide expert advice and guidance to educational institutions, government agencies, or private organizations. The candidate's expertise in education or EdTech can be valuable in areas such as curriculum development, instructional design, technology integration, and educational policy.
Instructional Designer: Instructional designers often work in educational institutions, corporate training departments, or e-learning companies. They collaborate with subject matter experts to create engaging and interactive learning content using various technologies and instructional approaches.
Education Technology Specialist: With a Ph.D. in EdTech, one can work as a technology specialist in educational institutions, EdTech companies, or educational publishers. Responsibilities typically include evaluating, implementing, and managing educational technologies, conducting professional development sessions for teachers, and ensuring the effective use of technology to enhance learning outcomes. Curriculum Developer: A curriculum designer designs and refines educational curricula, taking into account the latest research in education and pedagogy. One may work for educational institutions, publishers, or organizations focused on developing educational materials and resources. Policy Analyst: Governments and educational organizations often seek Ph.D. graduates to work as policy analysts. This role could include researching, analyzing, and evaluating educational policies, assessing their impact, and making recommendations for improvement. Policy analysts may contribute to shaping education policies at local, regional, or national levels. Entrepreneur/Startup Founder: With a Ph.D. in EdTech or Education, one can explore entrepreneurial opportunities by starting your own EdTech company or joining a startup. This path allows you to develop innovative educational technologies, create digital learning platforms, or provide specialized services in the education sector. These are just a few examples of the job opportunities available for individuals with a Ph.D. in Education or EdTech. The specific roles and opportunities may vary depending on your interests, specialization, and the current needs of the education and technology sectors.
Education Technology Specialist: With a Ph.D. in EdTech, one can work as a technology specialist in educational institutions, EdTech companies, or educational publishers. Responsibilities typically include evaluating, implementing, and managing educational technologies, conducting professional development sessions for teachers, and ensuring the effective use of technology to enhance learning outcomes.
Curriculum Developer: A curriculum designer designs and refines educational curricula, taking into account the latest research in education and pedagogy. One may work for educational institutions, publishers, or organizations focused on developing educational materials and resources.
Policy Analyst: Governments and educational organizations often seek Ph.D. graduates to work as policy analysts. This role could include researching, analyzing, and evaluating educational policies, assessing their impact, and making recommendations for improvement. Policy analysts may contribute to shaping education policies at local, regional, or national levels.
Entrepreneur/Startup Founder: With a Ph.D. in EdTech or Education, one can explore entrepreneurial opportunities by starting your own EdTech company or joining a startup. This path allows you to develop innovative educational technologies, create digital learning platforms, or provide specialized services in the education sector.
These are just a few examples of the job opportunities available for individuals with a Ph.D. in Education or EdTech. The specific roles and opportunities may vary depending on your interests, specialization, and the current needs of the education and technology sectors.
Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee
Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee
Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee
Institute Repository
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 09 Feb 2026 - 09:46 AM
Last Updated : 09 Feb 2026 - 09:46 AM
Last Updated : 09 Feb 2026 - 09:46 AM
###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!