SOURCE_PDF: 60bd1538a2da_SoLA_Newsletter_2025.pdf

School of Liberal Arts
IIT Jodhpur
INSIGHTS- NEWSLETTER
VOL 3 ISSUE 2 MAY 2025
CONTENTS
MESSAGE FROM THE HEAD
EVENTS
TEAM SOLA
SOLA STORIES
CONTACT US
EDITORIAL TEAM: SREEDEVI D, SUNIL KUMAR LOHAR, PRADARSHIKA BISWAS
PHOTO COURTESY: STUDENTS, SOLA

Message from the Head
Dear Friends,
I welcome you to the sixth edition of SoLA’s Newsletter, which covers various
dimensions of the School’s growth including teaching, research, and national and
international collaboration with academia and industry.
This semester Dr. Bhaskar Kumar Kakati, Dr. Dinesh Mohan Joshi, Dr. Soni, and Dr.
Souryabrata Mohapatra joined the School as faculty. I welcome them and wish them
a fruitful and prosperous career ahead.
In the middle of the semester, our third Winter School titled “Interdisciplinary
Pathways in Computational Social Science: Economics, Sociology and Policy” was
held and eminent speakers and experts from the field, including District Collector and
District Magistrate Jodhpur, joined the sessions.
SoLA also hosted a couple of talks from diverse fields. This time we also have stories
from the field by our doctoral scholars. This is a new section where they share their
experiences from the field, research journeys and their outreach activities. We also
had a visit by the Honourable Director, IIT Jodhpur and a team, where our doctoral
scholars presented their research work and received valuable feedback.
I wish everyone a joyful and relaxed summer break.
Kind regards,
Alok Ranjan

Events
Winter School
The third edition of MSc CSS Winter School, titled “Interdisciplinary Pathways in
Computational Social Science: Economics, Sociology and Policy” was held on 27
February and 1 March 2025 at SoLA. Eminent speakers and experts from the field, Dr
Manohar Kumar, Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, IIIT Delhi, Dr. C.
Oswald, Department of Computer Science, NIT Tiruchirapalli and Shri Gaurav
Agarwal, District Collector and District Magistrate ,Jodhpur led the sessions.

This year’s first talk was delivered by Dr. Dipa Donde,
Research Associate at Mehrangarh Fort Trust, Jodhpur,
on “Thinking and Talking Animals in Indic
Narratives: Text and Images from the Panchatantra,
Ramcharitmanas and Dhola Maru by artists of Marwar in
the 18th and 19th Century” in January 2025.
Book Talk
SoLA Seminar Series
Prof. P.C. Thoudam introduced The
Structure of Manipuri (Meiteiron)
Language (2023), offering fresh insights
into the language. The talk highlighted
distinctive features of Meiteiron that set
it apart from other Tibeto-Burman
We hosted a virtual book talk by Dr. Achyut
Chetan on his book Founding Mothers of the
Indian Republic: Gender Politics of the
Framing of the Constitution (2022).
Dr. Achyut discussed the crucial role of
women in shaping the Indian Constitution
and the gender politics involved in its

Dr. Anand Brudhan
delivered an insightful
talk on Indian
Iconography, and
Museums in April at
School of Liberal Arts and the School of Design
hosted a talk and demo by Björn Lengers
(CyberRäuber) in March 2025, exploring XR, AI,
and digital performing arts.
The session highlighted innovative tech in
storytelling, including XR, AR, 360° film, and real-

Research Scholars’ interaction with the Director

Journal Club
Dr.Alok Ranjan talked on National Health Accounts Estimates for India, 2021-22 in
the journal club meeting of December 2024.
Journal Club session in January 2025 was led by Dr. Saurabh Maheshwari with his
paper "What Makes People Help More in the Presence of Others? A Counterintuitive
Helping Behavior".
The journal club meeting in April was led by research scholar Ms. Pradarshika
Biswas on "Lesser Lives: Working class Women in the Fiction of Post-liberalisation
India".

New Members of Team SoLA
Bhaskar Kumar Kakati joined the School of Liberal Arts in
March 2025. He holds a Ph.D. in Social Sciences from Tata
Institute of Social Sciences, along with a Masters degree in
Ancient History and another in Rural Development. His areas of
research are rural development, migration, livelihood and
appropriate technology and sustainability. An accomplished
creative writer, Kakati has contributed over hundred poems and
stories in Assamese and has authored two books on Assamese
theatre. He is actively involved in theatre as an actor and
director. In recognition of his work, he was felicitated by the
Asam Sahitya Sabha in 2020 and he received the Social Service
Award from Dispur Press Club (2024) for his contributions to
rural development.
Dinesh Mohan Joshi joined the School of Liberal Arts, as an
Assistant Professor in February 2025. He holds a Ph.D. in Indian
Mathematics and Astronomy from the Department of
Humanities and Social Sciences, IIT Bombay, and brings over a
decade of dedicated research experience in the domain of Indian
Knowledge Systems (IKS). With recognized expertise in
manuscript reading, decoding, interpretation, and critical
analysis, he brings profound scholarly insight into ancient
Indian scientific traditions, particularly in the areas of
astronomy, mathematics, and astrology.

Souryabrata Mohapatra  joined the School of Liberal Arts, IIT
Jodhpur, as an Economics faculty in mid-March 2025. Prior to
that, he served as a research faculty at NCAER in New Delhi.
His applied studies explore the intersections of environmental
and development economics and his areas of Interest are
Economics of climate change, sustainable agriculture, green
transitions, equitable migration, and rural resilience.Has a
longstanding interest in pencil sketching and enjoys reading
manga in leisure. Cooking is another passion that grew
during hostel life and still continues—experimenting with new
vegetarian recipes.
Soni joined the School of Liberal Arts , IIT Jodhpur in April 2025.
Prior to this, she was an Assistant Professor at GITAM School of
Humanities and Social Sciences. She has held a postdoctoral
position at IIT Bombay and earned her Ph.D. in History from ETH
Zurich. Her areas of research are childhood, youth and gender
studies; history of education; modernity; postcolonial & decolonial
history. Dr. Soni is currently completing her first book, ‘Saving’ the
Orphans: Historicizing ‘Child Protection’ in Colonial North India,
1830–1943, under contract with Palgrave Macmillan (UK). When not
lost in archives, Soni finds joy in the company of indie dogs. She
unwinds with badminton, gardening, and calls museum-hopping
her favorite cardio.

SoLA Stories
Snippets from the field
(This is a new section where research scholars from SoLA share their experiences from the field, research
journeys and their outreach activities. This time we have two stories- from Nisha Palliwal and Sanskriti)
Nisha Palliwal
(Nisha Palliwal is interested in folk culture, traditional ecological knowledge systems and community
practices. Her research area is at the intersection of energy humanities, political ecology and critical
infrastructure studies)
(Photos shared by the scholar from her field visit)

On my first trip to Jaisalmer as a tourist, I was captivated by the larger-than-life windmills that dominated
the landscape and stood as the epitome of national development and sustainability in the middle of the
desert. However, while staying at a homestay 25 km away from the city while working with the Langa and
Manganiyar musicians in Jaisalmer, I first discovered the complexities of green energy transition in
Narrating the emergence of the wind project in the area, my host informed me about the time when the
projects were beginning in the outskirts of Jaisalmer city under the pretence of providing electricity to the
nearby villages. Despite protests from the villagers who feared these plants would take over their land, the
construction began claiming that the plants would be removed after a few years. The community tried
everything in their power to stop the construction, saying they could do without electricity but not the
land which supported their entire survival. The village protesters failed to stop the construction and in
compensation for their loss, a few residents were offered positions as watchmen or guards. In a few
months, they were dismissed. What struck me the most was not a direct response but rather the
remarkable climate resilience and the deep ethnographic knowledge embedded not only in local practices
but also within the landscape that can be traced through the root-like patterns of seasonal rivers that
shape the terrain.
During my field study in August 2024, I witnessed a river form before my eyes, the water emerged from the
terrain and coursed through the landscape and within minutes the entire riverbed was filled with water. In
the absence of perennial rivers, the local communities have found ways to harness and direct the scarce
rainfall for sustainable use showcasing an ecological balance. This challenges the dominant perception of
the Thar Desert as a ‘wasteland,’ a term that fails to acknowledge the ecological complexity and adaptive
strategies that sustain life in arid regions. It compels us to reconsider how we conceptualize deserts and to
question the tendency to apply a uniform framework to understand them. The assumption that all
deserts are barren, lifeless, or unproductive oversimplifies their ecological and cultural diversity.

Sanskriti
(Sanskriti’s research looks at the media infrastructures and habits of borderland areas by deploying
media ethnography)
Image 1 - A red carpet screening of Khomlang Laman (2024) at the MSFDS Auditorium
(Photos shared by the scholar from her field visit)
My work aims to use ‘border’ as a method to study the media infrastructures and habits of borderland
areas by deploying media ethnography. The work examines the complex media environments in
borderland regions, focusing on phenomena such as Korean films in Manipur, Mizo-dubbed Korean
dramas in Mizoram, Japanese anime in Nagaland, and heavy metal and gospel music in Meghalaya.
I have attempted to develop a multi-modal format of media ethnography while documenting my
fieldwork journey through images, videographies, interviews, memorabilia, and objects of ‘affect.’ These
objects hold a symbolic value that remains pertinent in tracing the ethnographer’s rhythm around the
field site(s) during mundane and staggering moments of delay, incertitude, and failure. Contrary to
what was anticipated, the situation on my primary field site (Manipur) was faced with challenges
compelling me to adapt and reframe my arguments. As a result, I sought field aids, field dupes, and
alternative field settings to support my research.The ground realities of my fieldwork were rather
strenuous, and accessing knowledge systems based on indigenous histories and experiences demanded
a decolonial methodological approach of closely interrogating moments of failed interviews, rupture,
and interruptions.

Experiencing moments of camaraderie with local stakeholders of knowledge reconstituted the ideas of
what defines a field and how one must traverse these contested spaces of belonging. My positionality as
an ethnographer was significantly shaped by the connections I developed through lasting relationships
and a strong sense of kinship in the area, as I resided there during my master's degree at the height of the
pandemic. The interlocutors who agreed to share their stories with me did so in a variety of settings—
sometimes in front of a camera, at other times beneath the warmth of their kitchen hearths, within the
confines of their offices, or even amidst a family gathering such as Utsav[1]. I found myself sharing
personal anecdotes, fostering a sense of connection that enriched our dialogues on how identities are
shaped and contested in the ongoing struggle between state, quasi-state, and separatist power entities.
Regardless of the location, these conversations revealed intimate glimpses into their lives, even as they
responded to structured questions about media infrastructures and embodied fan experiences.
Image 2- A female vendor who offered me a cup of tea while I was photographing the wet markets in
the back lanes of Razhu Bus Point of Kohima
1 In Hindu families, particularly among Meetei Vaisnav families in Manipur, an act of charity is observed in the form of offering a feast to Brahmans,
Vaisnavas, and elderly individuals which is primarily carried out during the observance of the death anniversaries of parents and elders.

Contact
School of Liberal Arts
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH62, Nagaur Road, Karwar,
Jodhpur 342037, Rajasthan, India