SOURCE_PDF: 619e5fd9ceda_BTech_Old_REV_13122014.pdf

Regulations for B.Tech. Programs
(For Students enrolled in and before July 2013)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Contents
Description 
Page
1 
Introduction 
3
2 
Academic Session 
3
2.1 Academic Calendar 
3
3 
Admissions 
4
3.1 B. Tech Programs 
4
3.2 Non-Degree Program 
5
3.3 Cancellation of Admission 
5
3.4 Fulfilment of Admission Requirements 
6
4. 
Curriculum 
6
4.1 Academic Load 
6
4.2 Calculation of Credits for a Course 
6
5. 
Registration 
7
5.1 Credits to be earned 
7
5.2 Registration Procedure 
8
5.3 Registration of a Deficient Student 
8
5.4 Late Registration 
8
5.5 Adding and Dropping of Courses 
9
5.6 Withdrawing from a Course 
9
5.7 Cancellation of Registration 
9
6. 
Teaching and Evaluation 
9
6.1 Teaching 
9
6.2 Evaluation 
11
6.3 Grading System 
11
6.4 Grade Point Averages 
13
7. 
Termination 
13
7.1 Termination from B. Tech. Program 
13
7.2 Appeal against Termination 
14
8 
Leave of Absence 
14
8.1 Mid-Semester Recess and Vacation 
14
8.2 Short Leave 
14
8.3 Temporary Withdrawal / Semester Leave 
14
8.4 Permission to Proceed to other Institutions 
15

9 
Branch Change 
16
10 
Requirements for Graduation 
17
10.1 Minimum Duration of Residence 
17
10.2 Academic 
17
10.3 Payment of Fees and Dues 
17
10.4 No case of Disciplinary Action 
18
10.5 Completion of Summer Immersion in Industry 
18
10.6 Completion of engagement in NCC, NSS or NSO 
18
10.7 Award of Degrees 
18
10.8 Withdrawal of Degree 
18
11 
Amendments 
18

S. No. Segment of the Year Duration
1 Semester 1 Fourth week of July – Last week of November
2 Winter Vacation First week of December – Third week of December
3 Semester 2 Last week of December – Last week of April
4 Summer Vacation First week of May – Third week of July
1. INTRODUCTION
IIT Jodhpur offers five Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.) Programs,
namely: 
(1) B.Tech. (Computer Science and Engineering); 
(2) B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering); 
(3) B.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering); 
(4) B.Tech. (System Science); and 
(5) B.Tech. (Biologically Inspired System Science). 
The duration of each of these is 4 years. 
 
The objectives of these B.Tech. Programs are to: 
(1) Provide fundamental concepts to students in technology and science, 
(2) Promote spirit of free and objective enquiry in the field of study, and 
(3) Contribute towards development of skilled technical manpower to address
the technological needs of the nation.
This document sets out the procedures and requirements of the said 
undergraduate Programs of study at IIT Jodhpur. 
 
2. ACADEMIC SESSION 
Each academic year (July to June) consists of two academic semesters. Each 
semester is for about sixteen (16) weeks with one week of recess for students, 
making it about 15 working weeks in each semester. Excluding the days of the 
examinations, the total number of days of instruction in a semester is at least 70. 
Normal schedule of these semesters is given in Table 1.
Table 1: Schedule of the Academic Session
2.1 Academic Calendar
It gives the exact dates of all important events during the
Academic Session, such as orientation, registration, commencement of 
classes, adding and dropping of courses, submission of documents, 
examinations, submission of grades, conversion of Incomplete I-grades, 
vacation, mid-semester recess. This calendar shall be approved by the 
Senate.

3. ADMISSIONS 
3.1 B.Tech. Programs
Admissions to the B.Tech. Program are made once a year in July
through the all-India level Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) conducted by 
IITs. The procedures and other requirements for admission are specified in 
the JEE Information Brochure brought out every year.
3.1.1 Foreign Nationals
A few admissions are offered to foreign nationals under the
Cultural Exchange Fellowship Program of the Government of India, 
administered by Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR), New Delhi. 
Persons interested in these Programs are required to apply through the 
Indian High Commission/Embassy in their respective countries. 
 
3.1.2 Reservation of Seats and Admission to Reserved Seats
Reservation of seats for the various categories shall be in
accordance with the policy of the Government of India. The admission 
process for the reserved seats is as stated below:
(1) SC and ST Candidates: Reserved seats are filled on the basis of JEE
qualifying norms specified for them. In case these reserved seats 
remain vacant, other SC and ST candidates (who appeared in JEE and 
satisfy certain relaxed conditions) are offered admission to the 
Preparatory Course of one year duration in Physics, Chemistry, 
Mathematics and English. On completion of the preparatory course 
and passing of the examination conducted by the Institute, the 
candidates are offered admission to the first year of B.Tech. Program 
against the vacant reserved seats of the year of their appearance in 
JEE.
(2) Other Backward Classes (OBC) Candidates (Not belonging to creamy
layer): Reserved seats are filled on the basis of JEE qualifying norms 
specified for them.
(3) PD Candidates: Reserved seats are filled on the basis of JEE qualifying
norms specified for them. In case these reserved seats remain vacant, 
other candidates in their respective categories are offered admission.
3.1.3 Change of Program
Normally, students shall pursue the respective B.Tech. Program
allocated to them at the time of admission. But, the Senate may permit a

limited number of students to change their Program as per approved 
guidelines.
3.2 Non-Degree Program
A non-degree student is a student who is registered for a degree in
a recognized Institute or a University in India or abroad, and who is 
officially sponsored by that Institute or University to complete a part of 
his/her academic Program at IIT Jodhpur. For that purpose, the non-degree 
student may carry out research, take courses for credit or otherwise, 
and/or may use other academic facilities. An official transcript of work 
done at the Institute along with grades obtained, if any, would be given to 
the non- degree student concerned for his/her use as he/she may deem 
appropriate. But, any credits earned at the Institute, by a non-degree 
student, cannot be applied for any degree Program of IIT Jodhpur at any 
time thereafter.
A person can be admitted as a non-degree student on a duly
sponsored application to the Coordinator (Academics), who will 
recommend admission on the advice of AC to the Chairman, Senate, for 
approval. A non-degree student may be admitted for a maximum period of 
one year. The strength of non-degree students in any Program should not 
be more than 25% of the Program strength. A non-degree student will be 
required to pay all applicable fees depending upon the status, Program, 
and nationality. Students so admitted also will be governed by all rules, 
regulations and discipline applicable to regular students of the Institute.
3.3 Cancellation of Admission
Students admitted provisionally or otherwise to any Program shall
submit copies of their mark sheets, provisional certificates, etc., of the 
qualifying examination and other documents by the last date specified for 
the purpose in the Academic Calendar. The Senate reserves the right to 
cancel the admission of any student, who fails to submit the prescribed 
documents by the specified date or to meet other stipulated 
requirement(s). Also, the Senate reserves the right to cancel the admission 
at any later time, if it is found that the student had provided some false 
information or suppressed relevant information while seeking admission.

S. No. Course
Category Course Description
1 C Compulsory These courses form the backbone of the technical
program and encompass all its different sub-areas within
the specific program.
2 E Elective These courses form the backbone of the technical
program and encompass all its different sub-areas within
the specific program.
3.4 Fulfillment of Admission Requirements 
 
Admission to any undergraduate Program requires that the
applicant be eligible, go through the laid-down admission procedure, and 
pay the prescribed fees. The Senate should formally approve all admissions 
to the undergraduate Programs. 
 
 
4. CURRICULUM 
 
The curriculum consists of a package of two types of courses as
listed in Table 2. Some courses have pre-requisites of courses in earlier 
semesters.
Table 2: Schedule of the Academic Session
4.1 Academic Load 
 
Each course is given a weightage called credits. This is based on the
number of contact hours for lectures, tutorials and practicals. Students 
with excellent academic record alone may be allowed to register for 3 
more credits than usual, on a special request to AC. 
 
4.2 Calculation of Credits for a Course 
 
The total credits for a course will be calculated by taking into
account the number of Lecture, tutorial and practical hours (L-T-P-C) 
assigned to the course. Each lecture hour in a week will be equivalent to 1 
credit. Typical examples of credit assignment to courses are given in Table 
3.

Hours per week Credits
Lecture (L) Tutorial (T) Practical (P)
Program Distribution of
B.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering) 138 36 174
B.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering 138 36 174
B.Tech. (Biologically Inspired System Science) 152 24 176
Table 3: LTP-structure and credit assignment
5. REGISTRATION
Students are required to register each semester for the courses as
per the Program, on the dates specified in the Academic Calendar. 
 
5.1 Credits to be earned 
 
Each B.Tech. program has certain core/compulsory courses. The
core courses are the ones that are common to all branches/disciplines. The 
compulsory courses are the discipline-specific courses that must be taken 
in order to become eligible for a B.Tech. degree in that discipline. Apart 
from the core and compulsory, a student needs to do some elective 
courses. A student can choose elective courses with the advice of the 
Program Coordinator. These elective courses can be Program electives, 
Humanities and Social Sciences Electives, Open Electives, or Science 
Electives. A student has to earn at least 172 Credits to be eligible for a 
B.Tech. degree; the category-wise distribution of credits to be earned is 
given in Table 4. 
 
Table 4: Distribution of Credits into Core/Compulsory and Elective Courses

Center Program
Center for ICT B.Tech. (Computer Science and Engineering)
B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering)
Center for Energy B.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering)
Center for Systems Science B.Tech. (Systems Science)
Center for BISS B.Tech. (Biologically Inspired Systems Science)
5.2 Registration Procedure
A list of courses to be offered in the next semester will be
announced online by the AC. Students shall pre-register for courses, in 
consultation with the Coordinator of the Center, which is hosting the 
B.Tech. program. Table 5 shows the list of B.Tech. Programs hosted by 
each Center.
Table 5: B.Tech. Programs hosted by each center
The registration procedure involves 
(1) Online filling of the registration form with courses proposed to be
credited in the semester.
(2) Payment of fees and clearance of outstanding dues (if any), and 
(3) Signing of the registration roll at the office of the Coordinator of the
Center hosting the B.Tech. Program.
A fresh student joining the Institute, who is waiting the final results
of the qualifying examination, is allowed to register provisionally on 
submission of a certificate from his/her last Institute stating that he/she 
has appeared in the final examination of the qualifying degree. The 
student is required to submit documents of having passed the qualifying 
examination by the last date given in the Academic Calendar for the 
registration to be regularized. 
 
5.3 Registration of a Deficient Student
A deficient student is one who either has not taken or has taken
but failed in course(s) of previous semester(s). A deficient student may be 
advised to register for the Basic Courses and complete them before 
registering for the Professional Courses.
5.4 Late Registration
All students must report at the Institute on the date of registration -
as specified in the Academic Calendar. If for any compelling reason, like 
illness, etc. a student is unable to register on the date of registration,

he/she must inform the Academic Office. If there are some valid reasons 
which can prevent a student from reporting at the Institute on the date of 
Registration then he/she must take prior permission to do late registration 
from the Chairman, AC. No student will be allowed to register after 1 week 
of the date of registration. In special cases, the final decision will rest with 
the Senate.
5.5 Adding and Dropping of Courses
A student may add or drop course(s) within one week of the
beginning of the semester or the last date(s) specified in the Academic 
Calendar. For this, the student must fill the appropriate form, get it 
endorsed by the Instructor of the course being added, and submit the 
same to the AC. No permission is required to drop a course. But the total 
credits of the courses registered for shall not be less than 12.
5.6 Withdrawing from a Course
After the last date of add-drop, a student will have the option of
withdrawing from a course. The last date of course withdrawal will be 1 
week after the first Mid-Term Exam. A student can withdraw from a course 
with the permission of the course Instructor, and subsequent approval 
from the Academic Committee. A student cannot add a new course in lieu 
of the dropped course. The withdrawn course will be mentioned in the 
Student’s grade card with a letter grade ‘Y’. 
 
5.7 Cancellation of Registration
Absence for a period of four or more weeks during a semester shall
result in automatic cancellation of the registration of a student from all the 
courses in that semester.
6. TEACHING AND EVALUATION 
6.1 Teaching 
6.1.1 Medium of Instruction
The medium of instruction is English.
6.1.2 Approval of Courses
Each course along with its weight in terms of credits is approved by
the Senate. Only the approved courses may be offered during any 
semester/summer-term.

6.1.3 List of Courses
The list of courses to be offered in a B.Tech. Program is finalized
before the beginning of the semester, by the center hosting that Program. 
 
6.1.4 Conduct of Courses
Each course is conducted by the Instructor with the assistance of the
required number of tutors, as required. The Instructor is responsible for 
conducting the course: teaching in the class, holding examinations, evaluating the 
performance of students, awarding grades at the end of the semester, and 
transmitting grades to AC within 72 hours of completion of final examination. 
 
6.1.5 Teaching Assignments
The instructors and tutors for all courses to be offered during the
semester are allocated by the Coordinator of the center hosting the Program. 
When faculty members of other centers are also required to participate in 
teaching a particular course, the allocation shall be done in consultation with the 
Coordinator of that center. 
 
6.1.6 Auditing of Courses
A student may audit a course in addition to the prescribed academic load
requirement with the permission of the Instructor of the course being audited. 
Under this arrangement, the course will be listed in the Grade Card of the student.
6.1.7 Attendance Requirements
A student is expected to have full attendance in each course. Unless the
student takes leave of absence for valid reasons, the student has to attend every 
lecture, tutorial, or lab session. If a student is absent without any reason, the 
Instructor would send him a warning by email. If the student’s attendance falls 
below 85% including all leaves, then the Instructor will notify the Office of 
Academic and a letter will be sent to the student’s parents. If the student still does 
not attend the classes regularly, then the Instructor can recommend to the AC to 
deregister the student from the course. If the attendance falls between 75-85%, 
the matter may be referred to Chairman, Senate. If it falls below 75%, the AC can 
decide on the matter itself. Once a student is deregistered from a course, that 
course will not show up in the grade-card of the student.
The leave of absence includes all leaves due to medical reasons,
participation in events/competitions organized in other Institutes, etc. The student 
is expected to plan his participation in events/competitions while ensuring that 
his/her attendance does not fall below 85%. Under exceptional circumstances, the 
student may be given an additional relaxation of 10% in the attendance; however, 
such cases will be referred to the Chairman, Senate.

S. No. Mid- Mid- End- Homeworks Term Laboratory
Semester 1 Semester 2 Semester Projects
6.2 Evaluation
The performance of students in a course is evaluated in a
continuous basis, using their interaction in the classroom, and 
performances in examinations, the laboratory work (if any), and term-
papers and projects.
6.2.1 Schedule of Examinations
Each course shall have two mid-semester and one end-semester
examinations; the mid-semester examinations shall be of 60 minutes 
duration and the final examination of 180 minutes. The weightages in 
different courses are listed in Table 6.
Table 6: Weightages of elements of evaluation in different courses
6.2.2 Make-up Examinations
No make-up examinations are admissible for any reason. But, if a
student fails to appear in any examination (two mid-semester and one end 
semester examinations) for a genuine reason (such as illness), she/he may 
make a request to AC for a make-up examination; a certificate shall be 
furnished from the Medical Officer of the Institute Health Center, when 
illness being the reason for absence from the examination. In such cases, 
the marks obtained in the other elements of evaluation shall be prorated 
for the examination missed. When two examinations are missed in a 
course, the prorating is done for only one examination; the marks in the 
other examination shall be taken as zero. 
 
6.3 Grading System 
6.3.1 Grades and Grade Points
At the end of the semester, a student is awarded a relative letter
grade in each course by the Instructor offering the course considering the 
performance of the student during the semester with respect to those of 
the other students registered in the course. Five regular letter grades, 
namely A, B, C, D and F, shall be awarded in each course. Each letter grade

S. Letter Grade Comment
No. Grade Points
1 A 10 Excellent
3 C 6 Marginal
6 I Incomplete
7 S Satisfactory
8 X Unsatisfactory
9 W Waiver
10 Y Withdrawn
is associated with a numerical equivalent on a 10-point scale (called Grade 
Point) shown in Table 7. The grades shall be submitted to the AC within 72 
hours after the end semester examination.
Table 7: Table showing letter grade and its equivalent grade points
In addition, there are three special letter grades, namely, I, S and X,
which stand for Incomplete, Satisfactory and Unsatisfactory, respectively. 
These are described in the following points:
(a) Incomplete I Grade
A student is awarded this grade in a course when the student fails
to appear in the end-semester examination for a genuine reason. ‘I’ 
grade must be converted by the Instructor to an appropriate letter 
grade by the last date specified for the same in the academic calendar. 
‘I’ grade outstanding after this date shall be converted automatically 
into ‘F’ grade.
(b) Satisfactory S and Unsatisfactory X Grades
A student is awarded these grades in a Pass/Fail Course;
satisfactory performance is recorded as ‘S’ grade, and unsatisfactory 
as ‘X’ grade. Credits earned in these courses are not counted in the 
calculation of the CGPA. When the student earns a ‘S’ grade, she/he 
earns the credits; when the student earns ‘X’ grade, she/he does not 
earn the associated credits.
(c) Waiver W
A student is awarded this grade in a course for which the Academic
Committee has granted a waiver to the student. A waiver may be 
granted by the Academic Committee for the courses credited by the 
student at other Universities/Institutes.

(d) Withdrawal Y
A student is awarded this grade in a course, if she/he withdraws
from a course after the last date of add/drop.
6.3.2 Change of Grade Already Awarded
A letter grade once awarded cannot be changed under any
circumstance. In exceptional cases, the Student may appeal to the 
Chairman, Senate for reconsideration, with formal justification. 
 
6.4 Grade Point Averages 
6.4.1 Semester Grade Point Average
The Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) is a weighted average of
the grades earned by a student in all the courses credited by her/him and 
reflects her/his academic performance in the respective semester. If the 
grade points associated with the letter grades earned by a student in N 
courses registered during a semester are G1, G2, … GN, and the 
corresponding credits C1, C2, … CN, then the SGPA is given by
6.4.2 Cumulative Grade Point Average
The Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) indicates the overall
academic performance of a student in all the courses registered up to the 
latest completed semester. The CGPA is computed in a similar manner as 
the SGPA, considering all the courses in all semesters.
6.4.3 Grade Card and Transcript
A Grade Card shall be issued to each student at the end of each
semester, and a Transcript at the end of the B.Tech. Program. 
 
 
7. TERMINATION 
7.1 Termination from B.Tech. Program
A student may be terminated from the B.Tech. Program, by AC, if
the student 
(a) Is absent without authorized leave of absence for 8 weeks or more in the
semester and does not appear in the end-semester examination of the 
courses in which he/she is registered;

(b) Fails to report and register by the last date of registration without any
bonafide reason;
(c) Violates the code of conduct, involves in ragging, etc., as confirmed by a
Committee constituted for the purpose; and
(d) Does not earn the prescribed minimum number of credits within a maximum
of 8 years from the date of registration, including all leaves of absence.
7.2 Appeal against Termination 
 
A student, who is terminated from the B.Tech. Program, can appeal
to the Chairman, Senate, for reconsideration. While making such an 
appeal, the student is expected to give reasons for poor academic 
performance and/or why the termination should be reconsidered. The 
Senate shall take a final decision after considering all the available inputs. 
But, the Senate will not entertain any further appeal for review, unless 
substantial additional information is brought to its notice.
8. LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Application for leave of absence should be addressed to the
Chairman, AC, and submitted with a medical certificate, if applicable. 
Usually, leave must not be availed of without prior approval of the AC. 
 
8.1 Mid-Semester Recess and Vacation
Undergraduate students are entitled to avail of mid-semester
recess and vacation as specified in the Academic Calendar. 
 
8.2 Short Leave
Leave of absence during the semester shall be discouraged for all
registered students. But, for bonafide reasons, a student may be granted 
leave of absence during the semester for a maximum of 15 consecutive 
days on medical grounds, and for 7 days for any other valid reason. Illness 
must be certified or verified by the Medical Officer at the IIT Jodhpur 
Health Center and recorded in the medical booklet. 
 
8.3 Temporary Withdrawal / Semester Leave
Normally, a student is not allowed to withdraw temporarily from
the academic Program, and is expected to complete the program without 
a break. But, for bonafide reasons and/or in exceptional circumstances, a 
student may be allowed to withdraw temporarily on leave of absence at

the discretion of AC and/or Senate for an extended period. Such leave of 
absence(s) shall ordinarily not exceed 2 semesters with or without break 
during the entire period of the Program.
In case of a prolonged leave of absence due to medical or other
genuine reasons, the student or his parents must notify the Office of 
Academics, before proceeding on leave, or within a week of the incident. A 
student who remains on authorized leave of absence due to ill health, is 
required to submit on return a certificate from a Registered Medical 
Practitioner to the effect that he/she is sufficiently cured and is fit to 
resume his/her studies. Within 15 days of joining back to the Institute, after 
recovering from illness, the student should get his treatment verified by 
the Medical Officer at the Health Center of IIT Jodhpur and get the 
treatment summary recorded on his/her medical booklet. The student will 
be allowed to register only when AC is fully satisfied of his/her state of 
health. The Academic Committee may advise the student to apply for a 
reduced course load or, if deemed necessary, dropping the semester.
8.4 Permission to Proceed to other Institutions
To help students to broaden their horizons and gain course/work
experience, he/she may be permitted to proceed to other academic 
institutes in India or abroad as a non-degree student. The following 
guidelines and procedures apply for this purpose:
(1) Eligibility: A student may be allowed to spend up to one semester
and/or one summer terms in any academic institute/university/industry 
of repute in India or abroad with prior permission of AC, if the student 
has: 
(i.) Completion of first four Semesters of course work with a CGPA of at least
8.0; and
(ii.) No ‘F’ grade in any course.
(2) Procedure: The student shall make an application to AC through the
Coordinator of the Center hosting the program, giving details of the 
proposed visit, and shall submit a statement of purpose with sufficient 
information about the institute/university/industry where he/she has 
chosen to spend time as a non-degree student. The AC will examine 
the student’s request. On the recommendation of the AC, the Senate 
may approve the proposal and grant permission, with leave of

absence, to the student to proceed as a non-degree student to the 
selected institute.
(3) Transfer of Credits and Waiver in-lieu thereof: The student will be
informed about the requirements he/she must fulfill to apply, on 
his/her return, for academic credit. On return, the student may apply 
for waiver with an official transcript of the grades obtained by him/her 
at the selected institute as a non-degree student and other 
documents/material that the concerned center may require for 
evaluation. The AC will determine the equivalent courses and/or 
requirements for which the student may be given a waiver in his/her 
undergraduate Program at IIT Jodhpur.
On the recommendation of the AC, the Senate may allow a
student waiver for a maximum credit equivalent to that earned in 2 
semesters in the respective branch in-lieu of his/her successful 
completion of the Program elsewhere as a non-degree student. 
Against each course or requirement for which a waiver is granted, the 
letter grade ‘W’ would appear on the Grade Card with an explanatory 
note that it stands for waiver granted due to courses taken and/or 
work done at the selected institute elsewhere. All such courses and/or 
requirements will be deemed to carry zero credits for SGPA/CGPA 
calculations.
(4) Students selected by the Institute, using prescribed rules and
procedures, to proceed on any Academic Exchange Program will be 
governed by the other Clauses of 8.4.
9. BRANCH CHANGE
A student is eligible for a branch change only once at the end of
the First Year of the B.Tech. Program, if she/he meets the following 
requirements: 
(a) The CPI at the end of the second semester should be:
i. Greater than or equal to 7.0 for SC/ST applicants 
ii. Greater than or equal to 8.0 for other applicants
(b) The student should have passed all the courses till second semester 
(including the courses in which S/X grades are awarded).
(c) No branch may exceed 110% of sanctioned strength as a result of branch 
change.

The branch change decided based on CGPA of all students who are 
awarded. Students eligible and applying for branch change have to 
undertake a self-study of the Compulsory courses of the discipline to which 
they sought the branch, which were offered during 1st and 2nd Semester. 
The student will be directed to e-learning and other prescribed textbooks 
to gain the knowledge of those courses. This exercise shall be completed 
in the first summer itself. There will be no examinations to be written by 
the students on return to the Institute for the 3rd Semester. But, they will 
be required to meet specific faculty members, who will verify that the self-
study was effectively accomplished.
10. REQUIREMENTS FOR GRADUATION
A student is deemed to have completed the requirements for
graduation if she/he has met the requirements laid down in Clauses 10.1 to 
10.4. 
 
10.1 Minimum Duration of Residence
The minimum duration of residence shall be 4 years, from the date
of registration. The maximum duration of residence for B.Tech. Programs 
shall be 8 years, including the periods of leave of absence, from the date of 
registration.
10.2 Academic
A student shall be declared to have fulfilled the academic
requirement for the award of the B.Tech. degree if he/she has passed all 
the courses as per the Program’s curriculum and earned the requisite 
number of credits as specified in Table 4. A student is considered to have 
passed a course if he/she secures a grade ‘D’ and above in that course. 
Further, the student shall obtain a minimum CGPA of 5.0 in all the passed 
courses. 
 
10.3 Payment of Fees and Dues
The student shall pay all admissible fee and dues, and seek a No
DUE CERTIFICATE from the Institute, on completion of the Academic 
Requirements.

10.4 No case of Disciplinary Action
The student shall not have any case of indiscipline pending against
her/him. 
 
10.5 Completion of Summer Immersion in Industry
The student should have completed a total of 24 weeks of industry
engagement either as part of the Blended B.Tech. Program or otherwise, 
during the summers following the 2nd, 4th and 6th Semesters.
10.6 Completion of engagement in NCC, NSS or NSO
The student should have completed on of the three formal
schemes, namely National Cadet Corps, National Service Schemes, and 
National Sports Organisation for a period of at least two Semesters during 
their B.Tech. Program. 
 
10.7 Award of Degrees
A student who completes all the graduation requirements
specified in Clauses 10.1 to 10.4 is recommended by the Senate to the Board 
of Governors (BoG) for the award of the appropriate degree in the ensuing 
convocation. The degree can be awarded only after the Board of Governors 
(BoG) accords its approval. 
 
10.8 Withdrawal of Degree
Under extremely exceptional circumstances, where gross violation
of the graduation requirements is detected at a later stage, the Senate may 
recommend to the Board of Governors withdrawal of a degree already 
awarded to the student. 
 
 
11. AMENDMENTS
Notwithstanding anything contained in this document, the Senate
of IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to modify/amend without notice, the 
curricula, procedures, requirements, and rules pertaining to its B.Tech. 
Programs.

Regulations for B.Tech. Programs 
2014