SOURCE_PDF: 6599d6e8edf0_109e6176-beb6-4daa-94e4-a3eac449de58.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Board of Governors
Minutes of
10th Special Meeting
16 December 2019 (Monday)
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur

This page is left blank, intentionally

S.No. Items
S10.1 WELCOME BY THE CHAIRMAN
S-10.2 INSTITUTE REPORT BY THE DIRECTOR
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Board of Governors
Minutes of 10th Special Meeting
16 December 2019 (Monday), 04:00 P.M.
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
The following Members attended the meeting:
1. 
 
Dr. R. Chidambaram, Former PSA to GoI
Chairman
2. 
 
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur 
 
Director & Member 
(Ex-officio)
3. 
 
Dr. Rakesh Sarwal, Additional Secretary (TE), MHRD
Member 
(Attended 
through 
Video-
4. 
 
Prof. Akhil R. Garg, Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur 
Member
5. 
 
Prof. Sampat Raj Vadera, 
Professor, Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Member
6. 
 
Prof. Surajit Ghosh, Professor, 
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering, IIT Jodhpur
Member
7. 
 
Sh. P.G. Basak, Advisor (Admn.) & Offg. Registrar
Secretary
The following members were unable to attend the meeting:
1. Sh. Anil Bhavarlal Jain, MD & CEO, Jain Irrigation, Jalgaon
Member
2. Prof. N. S. Shekhawat, Former Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur
(granted leave of absence)
Member
The following are the decisions of the Board on the items of the Agenda:

S-10.3.1 To approve:
(i) Conferment of Degrees to the B.Tech., M.Tech., M.Sc. and Ph.D
Students after completing all the academic requirements during the
session 2018 - 2019, and
(ii) Award of Medals to the Students during the 5th Convocation of the
Institute.
S-10.3.2 To consider and approve the recommendations of the 19th Meeting of the
Senate held 09 December 2019.
(
(
( The Minutes of the 19th Meeting of the Senate was placed on the table during the
meeting. After detailed discussions, the Board approved the following
recommendations of the Senate:
(1) Creation of New Academic Entities
a. School of Management and Entrepreneurship
b. Centre for Technology Foresight and Policy
c. Centre for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development
(2) Proposal for Starting of MBA Programme
(3) Proposal of New B.Tech programmes to be started from AY 2020 Semester I
(4) Capability linked Double B.Tech. with a second Degree in Engineering Science
(5) Proposed Intake for UG programs AY 2020 Semester I
(6) Proposal for New PG Programs and Intake to be started from AY 2020-21
(7) Joint Ph.D./ Joint Academic Programmes with Foreign/Other Universities
(8) Certificates courses and Diploma offered by IITJ
(9) Change in Thesis Submission Policy for Old Ph.D. student’s registered before
July 2019
(10) Change in the attendance policy for batches undergoing transition plan
(11)Approval of Convocation date 17 December 2019
(12)Recommendation for the Award of Ph.D. Degree to 5 Ph.D. Students, 2 M.Sc.
Students and 2 M.Tech. Students
(13) Proposal for Joint Programme for Ph.D. in Medical Technologies and Joint
programme for Masters and Ph.D. in Medical Technologies between IIT
Jodhpur and AIIMS Jodhpur
(14) Intellectual Property Right (IPR) Policy of IIT Jodhpur
Further, the Chairman shared that Degree format of IIT Jodhpur required to be
changed from two-sided to one side format as per practice of older IITs. It would
further reduce the time consumed on taking signatures from concerned. The
Director said that the revised norms for Degree format would be prepared and
placed before the Senate and recommendation of the Senate would be placed
before the BoG.
The Director further apprised the Board of Governors that Industries demanding
for Certificate/Diploma courses from IITs which could be specific in the tune of
Industry need and cater the requirement of the Industries. In order meet the
S.No. Name of
Program Number of Students
Graduating
Total 224

S-10.3.3 To consider and approve proposed panel of experts for conducting
Selection Committees for faculty in the proposed School of Management &
Entrepreneurship.
The Meeting ended with thanks to the Chair and all Members of the Board of Governors.
Offg. Registrar & Secretary, BoG
Sd/- 
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Approved 
 
 Sd/- 
Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur