SOURCE_URL: https://home.iitj.ac.in/~hardikjain

I am an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at IIT Jodhpur. My research advances digitalization through machine learning, computer vision, and 3D reconstruction. Previously, at Hitachi Rail, Berlin, I led industrial research projects developing innovative solutions for predictive maintenance, sensor fusion, and immersive data visualization.
I am an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at IIT Jodhpur. My research advances digitalization through machine learning, computer vision, and 3D reconstruction. Previously, at Hitachi Rail, Berlin, I led industrial research projects developing innovative solutions for predictive maintenance, sensor fusion, and immersive data visualization.
Latest Updates Institute's Research Initiation Grant Awarded the Institute's Research Initiation Grant to advance research in machine learning and 3D reconstruction. Interaction with Chief Justice of India Honored to discuss the application of machine learning in judicial processes with Chief Justice of India Dr. DY Chandrachud . Gratitude to the Embassy of India, Berlin for the opportunity. PhD Defense Successfully defended my Ph.D. thesis, Deep Learning Mesh Parameterization of 3D Shapes , on 02 Dec 2022, earning Magna Cum Laude. Thesis available online ; full presentation here .
Institute's Research Initiation Grant Awarded the Institute's Research Initiation Grant to advance research in machine learning and 3D reconstruction. Interaction with Chief Justice of India Honored to discuss the application of machine learning in judicial processes with Chief Justice of India Dr. DY Chandrachud . Gratitude to the Embassy of India, Berlin for the opportunity. PhD Defense Successfully defended my Ph.D. thesis, Deep Learning Mesh Parameterization of 3D Shapes , on 02 Dec 2022, earning Magna Cum Laude. Thesis available online ; full presentation here .
Institute's Research Initiation Grant Awarded the Institute's Research Initiation Grant to advance research in machine learning and 3D reconstruction. Interaction with Chief Justice of India Honored to discuss the application of machine learning in judicial processes with Chief Justice of India Dr. DY Chandrachud . Gratitude to the Embassy of India, Berlin for the opportunity. PhD Defense Successfully defended my Ph.D. thesis, Deep Learning Mesh Parameterization of 3D Shapes , on 02 Dec 2022, earning Magna Cum Laude. Thesis available online ; full presentation here .
Institute's Research Initiation Grant Awarded the Institute's Research Initiation Grant to advance research in machine learning and 3D reconstruction.
Institute's Research Initiation Grant
Awarded the Institute's Research Initiation Grant to advance research in machine learning and 3D reconstruction.
Interaction with Chief Justice of India Honored to discuss the application of machine learning in judicial processes with Chief Justice of India Dr. DY Chandrachud . Gratitude to the Embassy of India, Berlin for the opportunity.
Interaction with Chief Justice of India
Honored to discuss the application of machine learning in judicial processes with Chief Justice of India Dr. DY Chandrachud . Gratitude to the Embassy of India, Berlin for the opportunity.
PhD Defense Successfully defended my Ph.D. thesis, Deep Learning Mesh Parameterization of 3D Shapes , on 02 Dec 2022, earning Magna Cum Laude. Thesis available online ; full presentation here .
Successfully defended my Ph.D. thesis, Deep Learning Mesh Parameterization of 3D Shapes , on 02 Dec 2022, earning Magna Cum Laude. Thesis available online ; full presentation here .