SOURCE_PDF: 664a32a5aa62_News-Syllabus-Admission-in-MTechPhD-Dual-Degree-AY-2024-2025-638769590247411879.pdf

Department of Mechanical Engineering
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Karwar, Jodhpur 342030, INDIA
Syllabus for Written Test
General Aptitude and Mathematics 
(1) General Aptitude: Basic Mathematics, Reasoning and Aptitude: Basic geometry, Linear Algebra,
Ordinary Differential Equations, Combinatorics, Probability, Analytical reasoning and aptitude
(2) Engineering Mathematics: Systems of linear equations; Eigen values and eigen vectors;
Differential equations, First order equations (linear and nonlinear), Higher order linear 
differential equations with constant coefficients, Initial and boundary value problems; Laplace 
transforms, Numerical solutions of linear and non-linear algebraic equations, single and multi-
step methods for differential equations.
Thermofluids Engineering 
(3) Fluid Mechanics: Properties and classification of fluids; fluid statics, manometry, forces on
immersed bodies, buoyancy, stability of floating bodies; control-volume analysis of mass, 
momentum and energy; fluid acceleration; differential equations of continuity and momentum; 
Bernoulli’s equation; dimensional analysis; viscous flow of incompressible fluids, boundary layer, 
elementary turbulent flow, flow through pipes, head losses in pipes, bends and fittings, 
measurement of flow rate and pressure drop.
(4) Heat Transfer: Modes of heat transfer; one dimensional heat conduction, resistance concept,
electrical analogy, unsteady heat conduction, fins; dimensionless parameters in free and forced 
convective heat transfer, various correlations for heat transfer in flow over flat plates and 
through pipes; thermal boundary layer; effect of turbulence; radiative heat transfer, black and 
grey surfaces, shape factors, network analysis; heat exchanger performance, LMTD and NTU 
methods.
(5) Applications: Power Engineering: Steam Tables, Rankine, Brayton cycles with regeneration and
reheat. I.C. Engines: air-standard Otto, Diesel cycles. Refrigeration and air-conditioning: Vapour 
refrigeration cycle, heat pumps, gas refrigeration, Reverse Brayton cycle; moist air: 
psychrometric chart, basic psychrometric processes. Turbomachinery: Pelton-wheel, Francis and 
Kaplan turbines — impulse and reaction principles, velocity diagrams.
Mechanical Design 
(6) Engineering Mechanics: Free body diagrams and equilibrium; trusses and frames; virtual work;
kinematics and dynamics of particles and rigid bodies, impulse and momentum and energy 
formulations; impact.
(7) Strength of Materials: Stress and strain, stress-strain relationship and elastic constants, Mohr’s
circle for plane stress and plane strain, thin cylinders; shear force and bending moment diagrams; 
bending and shear stresses; deflection of beams; torsion of circular shafts; Euler’s theory of 
columns; strain energy methods; thermal stresses.
(8) Kinematics and Dynamics of Machinery: Displacement, velocity and acceleration analysis of
plane mechanisms; cam, gear trains, spatial mechanisms. Static force analysis and dynamics 
force analysis (planar), Dynamic force analysis (Spatial), Cam Dynamics, Balancing, Gyroscopes.

(9) Mechanical Vibrations: Free and forced vibration of single degree of freedom systems; natural
frequencies, resonance, effect of damping; Vibration under General forcing conditions, vibration 
isolation; critical speeds of shafts, Vibration control, torsional vibration, Vibration of Distributed 
Systems, Numerical Integration Methods in Vibration Analysis.
Advanced Manufacturing 
(10) Engineering Materials: Structure and properties of engineering materials, stress-strain diagrams
for engineering materials.
(11) Metal Casting Processes: Casting Terminology, Expendable and Permanent Mould Casting
Processes; Basic physics and understanding of casting shape, metal flow and solidification; 
Design principles for mold cavity, feeder and gating system; Casting defects and inspection of 
castings.
(12) Machining and Machine Tool Operations: Mechanics of machining, Single and multi-point
cutting tools, Tool geometry and materials, Tool life and wear; Kinematics of machine tools; 
Economics of machining; Non-traditional machining processes; Abrasive and Super-finishing 
Processes; Principles of work holding, Principles of jigs and fixtures design.
(13) Metrology and Inspection: Limits, fits and tolerances; Linear and angular measurements;
Comparators; Gauge design; Interferometry; Form and finish measurement; Co-ordinate 
Measuring Machine (CMM); Tolerance analysis in manufacturing and assembly.
(14) Computer Integrated Manufacturing: Fundamentals of CNC machines, CNC Programming
Fundamentals, CNC Hardware, CAD/CAM Integration, Computer Aided Process Planning, Rapid 
Prototyping.
(15) Welding and Joining: Fundamentals of arc welding, Arc welding processes, Solid state welding
processes, Gas welding.
(16) Forming Processes: Plastic deformation and yield criteria; fundamentals of hot and cold working
processes; bulk deformation processes (forging, rolling, extrusion, drawing) and sheet metal 
processes; principles of powder metallurgy, Powder metallurgy processes.