SOURCE_PDF: 679f4a48d5bd_TENDER-FOR-EMPANELMENT-OF-IP-LAW-FIRMS-638850165396541055.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
TENDER FOR EMPANELMENT OF IP LAW FIRMS
Bids to be submitted online (CPPP)
For
(Technical and Financial bid as per tender document)
NIT No: IITJ/SPS/R/25-26/IPR/01 dated 08 May 2025
Office of Stores & Purchase
IIT Jodhpur, Institute Building (East),
NH-62, Nagaur Road, Karwar,
Jodhpur-342030, Rajasthan

Name of Organization Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Open Tender Notice No. (NIT) IITJ/SPS/R/25-26/IPR/01 dated 08 May 2025
Tender Type
(Open/Limited/EOI/Auction/Single) Open
Tender Category (Services/Goods) Services
Type/Form of Contract (Supply/ Auction/
Service/ Buy/ Empanelment/ Sell) Empanelment
Product Category Empanelment of IP Law Firms
Is Multi Currency Allowed No
Date of Issue/Publishing 08/05/2025 (15:00 Hrs)
Document Download/Sale Start Date 08/05/2025 (15:00 Hrs)
Document Download/Sale End Date 29/05/2025 (15:00 Hrs)
Last Date and Time for Uploading of Bids 29/05/2025 (15:00 Hrs)
Date and Time of Opening of Technical Bids 30/05/2025 (15:00 Hrs)
No. of Covers (1/2/3/4) 02
Bid Validity days (180/120/90/60/30) 180 days
Period of Contract 1 Year
Address for Communication Office of Stores & Purchase, Institute
Building (East), IIT Jodhpur, NH-65, Nagaur
Road, Karwar, Jodhpur-342030
Contact No. 0291-2801 108/ 0291-2801 105
Email Address for Correspondence sps@iitj.ac.in
SCHEDULE

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur (hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”), an Educational 
Institute of National Importance, invites online Bids in two-bid format for “Empanelment of IP Law 
Firms” at the Institute as per the scope provided. All offers should be made in English and should be 
written in both figures and words. Tender forms can be downloaded from the CPP Portal 
(http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app) 
& 
Institute 
website
http://www.iitj.ac.in/tenders/index.php?id=equipment. The bidders are requested to read the tender 
document carefully and ensure compliance with all specifications/instructions herein. Non-compliance 
with specifications/instructions in this document may disqualify the bidders from the tender exercise. 
The Director, IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to select the item (in single or multiple units) or to reject 
any quotation wholly or partly. Incomplete tenders, amendments and additions to tender after opening 
or late tenders are liable to be ignored and rejected. 
 
1. INSTRUCTIONS FOR ONLINE BID SUBMISSION:
1.1. 
There are various search options built in the CPP Portal, to facilitate bidders to search active 
tenders by several parameters. These parameters could include Tender ID, organization name, 
location, date, value, etc. There is also an option of advanced search for tenders, wherein the 
bidders may combine a number of search parameters such as organization name, form of contract, 
location, date, other keywords etc. to search for a tender publishing on the CPP Portal.
1.2. 
Bidder should take into account any corrigendum published on the tender document before 
submitting their bids.
1.3. 
Bidder will go through the tender advertisement and the tender document carefully to understand 
the documents required to be submitted as part of the bid. Please note the number of covers in 
which the bid documents have to be submitted, the number of documents – including the names 
and content of each of the document that need to be submitted. Any deviations from these may 
lead to rejection of the bid.
1.4. 
The tenders will be received online through portal http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app. In the 
Technical Bids, the bidders are required to upload all the documents in .pdf format. All bids both 
Technical and Financial should be submitted in the e-Procurement portal.
1.5. 
Possession of a Valid Class II/III Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) in the form of smart card/e-
token in the company's name is a prerequisite for registration and participating in the bid 
submission activities through http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app. Digital Signature Certificates 
can be obtained from the authorized certifying agencies, details of which are available in the web 
site https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app under the link “Information about DSC”.
1.6. 
The Institute will not be responsible for any type of technical issue regarding uploading of Tender 
on website.
2. SEARCHING FOR TENDER DOCUMENTS
2.1. 
Once the bidders have selected the tenders they are interested in, they may download the required 
documents / tender schedules. These tenders can be moved to the respective ‘My Tenders’ folder. 
This would enable the CPP Portal to intimate the bidders through SMS / e-mail in case there is 
any corrigendum issued to the tender document.
2.2. 
The bidder should make a note of the unique Tender ID assigned to each tender, in case they want 
to obtain any clarification / help from the Helpdesk.

3. PREPARATION OF BIDS
3.1. 
Bidder, in advance, should get ready the bid documents to be submitted as indicated in the tender 
document / schedule and generally, they can be in PDF / XLS formats. Bid documents may be 
scanned with 100 dpi with black and white option.
3.2. 
To avoid the time and effort required in uploading the same set of standard documents which are 
required to be submitted as a part of every bid, a provision of uploading such standard documents 
(e.g. PAN card copy, annual reports, auditor certificates etc.) has been provided to the bidders. 
Bidders can use “My Space” are available to them to upload such documents. These documents 
may be directly submitted from the “My Space” area while submitting a bid, and need not be 
uploaded again and again. This will lead to a reduction in the time required for bid submission 
process.
4. Earnest Money Deposit (EMD):
The bidder will upload the Scanned copy of receipt of deposition of Earnest Money Deposit 
(EMD) of Rs. 4,00,000.00/- (Rupees Four Lakhs only) in favour of The Director, I.I.T. Jodhpur 
in the form of Bank Guarantee, Fixed Deposit or Demand Draft of a scheduled bank in the name 
of Director, IIT Jodhpur valid for 90 days from the date of opening of the tender. For online 
payment of EMD, please follow/ click the link https://oa.iitj.ac.in/ePay . The EMD will be 
Refundable without interest. Bids without EMD shall not be considered. The bidder will upload 
scanned copy of the receipt of deposition of Earnest Money & will also submit an undertaking 
for submission of original EMD on firm’s letter head duly sealed & signed by the authorized 
person of the firm. However, in addition to the above as per Rule 170 of GFR--- “Micro and 
Small Enterprises (MSEs) as defined in MSE Procurement Policy (as amended form time to time) 
issued by Department of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME)” are exempt from 
submission of EMD (Bid security), but the firm has to submit valid MSME registration documents 
for exemption in EMD
5. Performance Bank Guarantee:
The successful bidder shall be required to deposit a Performance Security Deposit of Rs 
10,00,000/- (Ten Lakhs Only) in the form of Bank Guarantee from any Scheduled Commercial 
Bank drawn in favour of “The Director, IIT Jodhpur” covering the period of contract and 60 days 
beyond the contract period. In case, the contract is further extended the Bank Guarantee will 
have to be accordingly extended/renewed by the successful vendor. All incidental charges 
whatsoever such as premium, commission etc. with respect to the Bank Guarantee shall be borne 
by the successful bidder. Non deposit of Bank Guarantee within the stipulated time shall render 
the contract invalid at the discretion of IIT Jodhpur.
6. Requirement of Registration
I. 
Any bidder from a country which shares a land border with India will be eligible to bid 
in this tender only if the bidder is registered with the Competent Authority.
II. 
“Bidder” (including the term ‘tenderer’, ‘consultant’ or ‘service provider’ in certain 
contexts) means any person or firm or company, including any member of a consortium 
or joint venture (that is an association of several persons, or firms or companies), every

artificial juridical person not falling in any of the descriptions of bidders stated 
hereinbefore, including any agency branch or office controlled by such person, 
participating in a procurement process.
III. 
“Bidder from a country which shares land border with India” for the purpose of this Order 
means: -
a. An entity incorporated, established or registered in such a country; or
b. A subsidiary of an entity incorporated, established or registered in such a country; or
c. An entity substantially controlled through entities incorporated, established or
registered in such a country; or
d. An entity whose beneficial owner is situated in such a country; or
e. An Indian (or other) agent of such a country; or
f. Natural person who is a citizen of such a country; or
g. A consortium or joint venture where any member of the consortium or joint venture
falls under any of the above.
IV. 
The beneficial owner for the purpose of (iii) above will be as under:
1. In case of a company or Limited Liability Partnership, the beneficial owner is the
natural person(s), who, whether acting alone or together, or through one or more 
juridical person, has a controlling ownership interest or who exercises control 
through other means.
a. “Controlling ownership interest” means ownership of or entitlement to more that
twenty-five percent of shares or capital or profits of the company;
b. “Control” shall include the right to appoint majority of the directors or to control
the management or policy decisions including by virtue of their shareholding or 
management rights or shareholders agreements or voting agreements;
2. In case of partnership firm, the beneficial owner is the natural person(s) who, whether
acting alone or together, or through one or more juridical person, has ownership of 
entitlement to more than fifteen percent of capital or profits of the partnership;
3. In case of an unincorporated association or body of individuals, the beneficial owner
is the natural person(s), who, whether acting alone or together, or through one or 
more juridical person, has ownership of or entitlement to more than fifteen percent 
of the property or capital or profits of such association or body of individuals;
4. Where no natural person is identified under (1) or (2) or (3) above, the beneficial
owner is the relevant natural person who holds the position of senior managing 
official;
5. In case of a trust, the identification of beneficial owner(s) shall include identification
of the author of the trust, the trustee, the beneficiaries with fifteen percent or more 
interest in the trust and any other natural person exercising ultimate effective control 
over the trust through a chain of control or ownership.

V. 
An agent is a person employed to do any act for another, or to represent another in 
dealings with third person.
Certificate for Tenders
“I have read the clause regarding restrictions on procurement from a bidder of a country which shares a 
land border with India; I certify that this bidder is not from such country or, if from such a country, has 
been registered with the Competent Authority. I hereby certify that this bidder fulfils all requirements in 
this regard and is eligible to be considered.”
7. Scope of Work:
1. Assessment, preparation, drafting, filing, submission, prosecution, opposition, and maintenance
of Indian patent applications and granted patents.
2. Assessment, preparation, submission, drafting, filing, prosecution, opposition, and maintenance
of international patent applications and granted patents.
3. Obtaining registration and ensuring maintenance of copyrights, industrial designs, trademarks,
and semiconductor integrated circuit layout designs.
4. Managing IP infringement matters. 
5. Securing approvals under the National Biodiversity Act or any other applicable legal provisions.
1. The empanelment will be for a duration of initially one year and extendable upto additional three
years based on satisfactory performance.
The tender comprises two sections: the Technical Bid and the Financial Bid. Both bids must be submitted 
simultaneously but in separate e-envelopes.
1. Envelope 1 should include:
a. Technical specifications as outlined in Annexure-I. 
b. All required documents, declarations, and information specified in annexure I in
annexure II.
2. Envelope 2 should include:
a. The Financial Bid in the prescribed BOQ_XXXX.xls format.

Note: The Financial Bid must not be submitted or uploaded along with the Technical Bid or any 
technical documents. It should be submitted exclusively as the Price Bid (Envelope-2) in the 
specified Excel format. Non-compliance with this requirement will result in the rejection of the 
bid.
10. Evaluation Process:
1. The Technical Bid consists of two sections: Prequalification Criteria and Technical Capability
(as per Annexure I).
2. The Tenderer must fulfill all prequalification criteria, while technical capability will be evaluated
and scored.
3. Technical parameters will be assessed as per the criteria outlined in Annexure I. 
4. If a Tenderer fails to meet the minimum requirement for any technical parameter, the score for
that parameter will be zero.
5. Only Tenderers scoring more than 60 marks in the Technical Bid will qualify for the Financial
6. In the Financial Bid, quotes must be provided for all activity heads; no field should be left blank. 
7. Charges 
quoted 
in 
the 
Financial 
Bid 
will 
be 
scored 
using 
the 
formula:
Total Charges (₹) = (Indian Patents × 0.4) + (Foreign Patents × 0.3) + (Design × 0.1) + 
(Copyright × 0.1) + (Trademark × 0.1)
8. The Top 10 Tenderers will be selected for empanelment based on the lowest total charges, ranked
as L1, L2, … L10. Parameters with percentage-based quotes will not be included in the scoring 
formula.
1. The Firm must be registered in India. 
2. The Firm must possess a valid PAN and GST number (RCM). 
3. The Firm must have an annual turnover of at least INR 5 Crore per year and have not incurred
any loss in the last three financial years.
4. At the time of the bid submission, the Firm should have been associated with at least 25 clients
for the past three years.
5. The Firm must have at least 10 years of experience in IPR as an Indian entity at the time of bid
6. The Firm must have filed at least 300 patent applications in India in the last five years. 
7. The Firm must have filed at least 30 foreign patent applications in the last five years. 
8. The Firm must have at least five patent agents on regular payroll. Details include appointment
letters/associate agreements and their Patent Agent Registration Numbers.

9. The Firm must not be blacklisted by any Central/State Government, Public Sector Undertaking,
or Government of India.
10. The Firm must not be involved in any major litigation that could impact or compromise service
11. The Firm must be directly active or have an association in foreign countries at the time of bid

FIRM DETAILS YES/NO DOCUMENTS REQUIRED
1 Is the firm legally registered in India? Company Incorporation Certificate
& Office Address Proof.
(Document(s) to be attached in
Annexure-II)
2 Whether the firm has a valid PAN
and GST number? GST certificate and PAN card
copy
(Document(s) to be attached in
Annexure-II)
3 Whether the firm has a valid
PAN and GST number? To be provided along with the
audited balance sheet and profit &
loss statements for the last three
years, duly attested and notarized.
(Document(s) to be attached in
Annexure-II)
4 Whether the firm has been
associated with at least 25
clients over the past three years
at the time of bid submission? List of clients with their point of
contact
(Document(s) to be attached in
Annexure-II)
Annexure I
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION

5 Whether the firm has a minimum of
ten years of experience in IPR as an
Indian entity at the time of bid
submission? Self-declaration on the
company’s letterhead.
(Document(s) to be attached in
Annexure-II)
6 Has the firm filed 300 patent
applications in India over the last five
years? Copy of Power of Attorneys as
evidence.
(Document(s) to be attached in
Annexure-II)
7 Has the firm filed at least 30 foreign
patent applications in the last five
years? Copy of Power of Attorneys as
evidence.
(Document(s) to be attached in
Annexure-II)
8 Has the firm appointed at least five
patent agents on a regular payroll
basis? Copy of appointment letters.
(Document(s) to be attached in
Annexure-II)
9 Has the firm been blacklisted or de
barred by any Central or State
Government, Public Sector
Undertaking, or the Government of
India? Self-declaration on the firm’s
letterhead.
(Document(s) to be attached in
Annexure-II)
10 Has the firm been involved in any
major litigation that could impact or
compromise the delivery of services? Self-declaration on the firm’s
letterhead.
(Document(s) to be attached in
Annexure-II)
11 Is the firm directly active or
associated in any foreign countries at
the time of bid submission? Relevant supporting
document.
(Document(s) to be attached in
Annexure-II)

Technical Capability Marks
for scoring Numbers to be provided in this
column and details to be
provided as
Annexure II.
12 Previous Experience with
Organizations
The Firm/Attorney must have
ongoing working experience with
institutions such as IITs, IISERs, or
IISC, handling all types of IP,
including Patents, Designs,
Copyrights, Trademarks, and Service
Marks. Additionally, the
Firm/Attorney should have expertise
in filing and prosecuting patent
applications in countries outside India
(e.g., USA/PCT).
(A minimum empanelment with at
least one IIT or IISER, or IISC
presently will be considered.)
Maximum Marks: 10 1-2: 6 Marks
3-4: 8 Marks
5-6: 10 Marks Empanelment documents are to be
provided as evidence.
(Document(s) to be attached in
Annexure-II)
13 Number of Employees/Associates on
Payroll
(A minimum of 20 employees enrolled
continuously for a period of ≥ 1 year
will be considered) 20-30: 4 Marks
31-40: 6 Marks
>40: 8 Marks No. =
List of employees (maximum 41).
(Document(s) to be attached in

Maximum Marks: 8 Annexure-II)
14 Number of IP Professionals Handling
IP Applications
Must include experts across various
branches of science and engineering,
specifically in biology, chemistry,
biotechnology, electrical and
electronics, civil, mechanical, IT, and
computer sciences.
(A minimum of 15 IP professionals
will be considered.)
Maximum Marks: 8 15-20: 4 Marks
21-25: 6 Marks
>25: 8 Marks No. =
List of IP professionals (maximum
26).
(Document(s) to be attached in
Annexure-II)
15 Number of Patent Agents on Payroll
(A minimum of 5 Patent Agents on
payroll continuously for a period of
≥ 1 year will be considered.)
Maximum Marks: 1 5-8: 6 Marks
9-11: 8 Marks
>11: 10 Marks No. =
List of patent agents (maximum
12).
(Document(s) to be attached in
Annexure-II)

16 Number of Indian Patent
Applications Filed
Must have filed Indian patent
applications within the last three
years from the publication date of the
Tender.
(A minimum of 300 patent
applications will be considered.)
Maximum Marks: 8 300-350:4 Marks
351-400:6 Marks
>400:8 Marks No. =
List of cases (maximum 401).
(Document(s) to be attached in
Annexure-II)
17 Number of Indian Patents Granted
Must have received Indian patent
grants within the last three years from
the publication date of the Tender.
(A minimum of 300 granted patents
will be considered. Applications
taken over by the firm, wherein
complete application drafting and
filing is made by other firm/attorney
shall not be included.)
Maximum Marks: 8 300-350:4 Marks
351-400:6 Marks
>400: 8 Marks No. =
List of cases (maximum 401 ).
(Document(s) to be attached in
Annexure-II)
18 No. of professionals on the
payroll for filing copyrights,
trademarks, design, and other
forms of IP (other than patent
agents)
(Minimum 4 professionals on
payrolls for a continuous period
of ≥ 1 year will be considered)
Maximum Marks – 8 4-6: 3 Marks
7-8: 5 Marks
>8: 8 Marks No. =
List of professionals (maximum 9).
(Document(s) to be attached in
Annexure-II)

19 No. of applications (other IPs
apart from patent applications
i.e. copyright, Design,
trademarks) filed in the last
three years from the publication
date of the Tender.
(Minimum 200 applications will
be considered)
Maximum Marks – 8 200-250: 4
Marks
251-300: 6
Marks
>300: 8 Marks No. =
List of cases (maximum 301).
(Document(s) to be attached in
Annexure-II)
20 No. of foreign countries wherein
the firm is operational or has
association with?
(Minimum 5 countries of
operation/ association will be
considered) Maximum Marks – 8 5-10: 4 Marks
11-15: 6 Marks
>15: 8 Marks No. =
List of foreign IP firms/ partners
and countries of operation/
association.
(Document(s) to be attached in
Annexure-II)
21 No. of Foreign patent applications
filed in the last three years from the
publication date of the Tender in
different countries FOR INDIAN
CLIENTS)
(Minimum 30 foreign
patent applications will be
considered) Maximum Marks – 8 30-50: 4 Marks
51-100: 6 Marks
>100: 8 Marks No. =
List of Foreign patent applications
(maximum 101).
(Document(s) to be attached in
Annexure-II)

22 No. of Foreign patents (US and
EP only) granted in the last three
years from the publication date
of the Tender.
(Minimum 30 foreign
granted patents will be
considered) Maximum Marks –
8 30-60: 4 Marks
61-70: 6 Marks
>70: 8 Marks No. =
List of foreign patents (maximum
71).
(Document(s) to be attached in
Annexure-II)
23 No. of PCT applications filed in
the last three years from the
publication date of the Tender.
(Minimum 30 PCT applications
will be considered)
Maximum Marks - 8 30-40: 4 Marks
41-50: 6 Marks
>50: 8 Marks No. =
List of PCT applications
(maximum 51).
(Document(s) to be attached in
Annexure-II)
I have attached all relevant supporting documents (As annexure II) for my claims.

S.
No. Activity *Charges
1 Brief IP report
2 Prior Art Search and Patentability Assessment
3 Drafting and filing of provisional specification
4 Drafting and filing of complete specification
5 Drafting and filing complete specification after provisional
6 Drafting and filing a Patent of addition
7 Drafting and filing a Divisional patent
8 Preparation and filing of PCT application
9 Drafting and Filing response to search report and written
opinion of the ISA
10 Filing a Demand for International Preliminary Examination to
International Preliminary Examining Authority for carrying out
an additional patentability analysis, usually on amended
application (after amending your invention in light of the search
report and written opinion of the ISA)
Scope of Work and Charges
(To be filled by the bidders and sent in a separate sealed envelope for financial bid evaluation)
Patent

11 Submission of Form-3 after every update in status of
PCT/corresponding foreign applications (Convention and
National phase)
12 Preparation and filing of Form 4
13 Preparation and filing of Form 8
14 Preparation and filing of Form 9
15 Preparation and filing of Form 13
16 Filing of Request for Expedite Examination (Form 18A)
17 Preparation and filing of Working Statement (Form 27)
18 Preparation and filing of other forms
19 Preparation and filing of Form III for submission to National
Biodiversity Authority
20 Preparation and filing of response to First Examination Report
21 Filing petition u/r 138 or 137 or 46
22 Processing the taking over of an application
23 Attending a Hearing, preparing and filing written submissions
24 Obtaining a certified copy of priority document from IPO for
PCT application or Convention application
25 Processing of renewal fee (Annuity Payment)
26 Preparation and filing of Form 28

27 Procuring & forwarding patent certificate from Indian Patent
Office
28 Drafting, filing and attending hearing in Pre-grant opposition
29 Drafting, filing and attending hearing in Post-grant opposition
30 Preparing and filing NBA application including all the follow
ups
31 Drafting and filing of Patent Assignment along with Form-6 /
Form-16 as required
32 Drafting and filing of foreign provisional specification
33 Drafting and filing of foreign complete specification
34 Preparation and filing of foreign filing license (Form-25)
35 Response to office action for foreign application (Prosecution:
Final or Non-final)
36 Payment of issue fee in US after notice of allowance from
USPTO
37 Procuring & forwarding certified copy of Priority application
from USPTO
38 Reporting grant of foreign patent with patent certificate
39 Payment of annuity for foreign patent
40 Filing a Form-16 to update the patent register in case of
Licensing out a granted Indian patent
41 Filing request for Withdrawal of Application from IPO

42 Filing a request for post-dating
43 Filing application for Restoration of a patent under section 60
44 Freedom to Operate (FTO) Analysis
45 Patent Landscaping
46 Valuation of Technology
S.
No. Activity *Charges
1 Preparation and filing of an application
2 Preparation and filing of Form 4
3 Preparation and filing of response to FER/office action
4 Attending hearing & filing written submission in design matter
5 Procuring & forwarding registration certificate
6 Filing of petition u/r 46
Design

S.
No. Activity *Charges
1 Preparation and filing a new application
2 Drafting and filing of an affidavit
3 Preparation and submission of response to examination report
4 Attending hearing & filing written submission
5 Pursuing the application at the Indian Trademark registry and
forwarding copy of the advertisement
6 Procuring & forwarding registration certificate
7 Filing a Trademark Opposition
8 Filing a Response to Trademarks Opposition
9 Renewal of a registered Trademark
S.
No. Activity *Charges
1 Preparation and filing of an application
Trademark
Copyright

2 Preparation and filing of copyright application for software
3 Drafting, filing and submission of response to Examination Report
4 Procuring & forwarding registration certificate
12. Indemnity: The vendor shall indemnify, protect and save IIT JODHPUR against all claims, losses,
costs, damages, expenses, action suits and other proceeding, resulting from infringement of any law 
pertaining to patent, trademarks, copyrights etc. or such other statutory infringements in respect of 
all the materials supplied by him.
13. Code Of Integrity:
No official of a procuring entity or a bidder shall act in contravention of the codes which includes
(i) prohibition of
a. making offer, solicitation or acceptance of bribe, reward or gift or any material benefit,
either directly or indirectly, in exchange for an unfair advantage in the procurement 
process or to otherwise influence the procurement process.
b. any omission, or misrepresentation that may mislead or attempt to mislead so that
financial or other benefit may be obtained or an obligation avoided.
c. any collusion, bid rigging or anticompetitive behaviour that may impair the transparency,
fairness and the progress of the procurement process.
d. improper use of information provided by the procuring entity to the bidder with an intent
to gain unfair advantage in the procurement process or for personal gain.
e. any financial or business transactions between the bidder and any official of the procuring
entity related to tender or execution process of contract; which can affect the decision of 
the procuring entity directly or indirectly.
f. any coercion or any threat to impair or harm, directly or indirectly, any party or its
property to influence the procurement process.
g. obstruction of any investigation or auditing of a procurement process. 
h. making false declaration or providing false information for participation in a tender
process or to secure a contract;
(ii) disclosure of conflict of interest.

(iii) Disclosure by the bidder of any previous transgressions made in respect of the provisions of
(i) with any entity in any country during the last three years or of being debarred by any 
other procuring entity.
14. Force Majeure:
a) The Supplier shall not be liable for forfeiture of its performance security, liquidated damages or
termination for default, if and to the extent that, it’s delay in performance or other failure to 
perform its obligations under the Contract is the result of an event of Force Majeure.
b) For purposes of this Clause, "Force Majeure" means an event beyond the control of the Supplier
and not involving the Supplier's fault or negligence and not foreseeable. Such events may 
include, but are not limited to, acts of the Purchaser either in its sovereign or contractual capacity, 
wars or revolutions, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions and freight embargoes.
c) If a Force Majeure situation arises, the Supplier shall promptly notify the Purchaser in writing
of such conditions and the cause thereof. Unless otherwise directed by the Purchaser in writing, 
the Supplier shall continue to perform its obligations under the Contract as far as is reasonably 
practical, and shall seek all reasonable alternative means for performance not prevented by the 
Force Majeure event.
15. Arbitration and Laws:
In case of any dispute or difference arising out of or in connection with the tender conditions / 
order and Contract, the Institute and the Supplier will address the dispute / difference for a mutual 
resolution and failing which, the matter shall be referred for arbitration to a sole Arbitrator to be 
appointed by the Institute. The Arbitration shall be held in accordance with the provisions of the 
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and the venue of arbitration shall be at Jodhpur only. The 
resolution of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on both the parties. 
 
In case of any ambiguity / dispute in the interpretation of any of the clauses in this Tender 
Document, Director, IIT JODHPUR’s interpretation of the clauses shall be final and binding 
on all parties 
 
 
 
16. Jurisdiction:
The courts at Jodhpur alone will have the jurisdiction to try any matter, dispute or reference 
between parties arising out of this tender / contract. It is specifically agreed that no court outside 
and other than Jodhpur court shall have jurisdiction in the matter.