SOURCE_PDF: 67ba17541bd8_Advertisement-MSc-CSS-AY-2026-27-639056500457497359.pdf

School of Liberal Arts
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH-62, Nagaur Road,Karwar, Jodhpur 342030, Rajasthan
Admission to two-year M.Sc. Computational Social Science
IIT Jodhpur invites applications for admission to M.Sc. program in Computational Social Science 
offered by the School of Liberal Arts for the Semester commencing from July 2026.
The M.Sc. Computational Social Science is the flagship program on the new and emerging area of 
Computational Social Science, which position itself at the intersection of the social sciences, 
mathematics, and computer science. The program is designed to enable and equip the learners to 
adopt and master computational approaches to the social sciences, so that they can significantly 
contribute to the coming age of AI and data-driven technology.
Detailed information about the Faculty Members associated with School of Liberal Arts at IIT Jodhpur 
can be obtained from the Institute website at https://iitj.ac.in/school-of-liberal-arts/
A.​ Application Procedure
Applicants are requested to use the following link to fill and submit the application form online:
Sports Quota: https://erponline.iitj.ac.in/Admission/index?admiss_ch=53
For admission to the First Semester of the AY 2026-27 commencing in July 2026, this online link will 
remain active till 10th March 2026
Applicants belonging to GEN-UR, GEN-EWS, and OBC categories are required to pay a processing fee of 
Rs.300 online, while SC, ST, and PD applicants need to pay Rs.150 during the submission of their 
application forms and it non refundable. It may be noted that there is no provision to edit the 
Application Form in the ERP Portal of the Institute after the final submission of the Application Form. 
Application Form with incomplete/ incorrect details will be outrightly rejected.
In case of any query with respect to online application, applicants may contact the ERP 
team on Email: erp@iitj.ac.in, phone number: 0291-2801176 
 
Other general queries between 10.00 am to 5.00 pm, on working days, may be directed at 
the following. 
 
1) Office of School of Liberal Arts: 0291-280-1402; email: office_sola@iitj.ac.in 
2) Sola Faculty: Dr. Soni: 0291-280-1429; email: soni@iitj.ac.in

Qualifying Degree Marks obtained in Qualifying Degree
A minimum of Bachelor’s degree or an equivalent At least 60% marks or 6.0/10 Cumulative
Performance Index (CPI) or Cumulative
Grade Point Average (CGPA) for
GEN/EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST/PD)
Applicants shortlisted for the admission process will be required to bring the final submitted 
application form duly signed along with a copy of all educational testimonials at the time of 
admission.
B.​Eligibility for Admission
The eligibility criteria prescribed below are the absolute minimum. The relaxation for SC/ST/PD 
candidates in the qualifying degree marks is as per Ministry of Education rules, as amended from 
time to time.
C.​Reservation Policy
The norms of reservation for different categories shall be adopted as laid down by the Ministry of 
Education, Government of India, as amended from time to time.
D.​ Sports Quota
Two supernumerary seats under the regular admission category shall be given under sports quota. The 
Sports Quota will be available to only those sportspersons who can produce certification about 
securing top three positions (in team or individual events) in national or international tournaments 
approved by SAI or other recognized sports federations or who were part of national team at junior or 
senior level in tournaments approved by these institutions. This will include both outdoor and indoor 
sports. See Annexure -I for details and link for sports quota applications.

Activity Date
Opening of the application form 02 February, 2026
Closing date of application form 10th March, 2026
Announcement of Shortlisting result for test and interview 20th March, 2026
Exam date (Offline admission test and interview)* 11th April, 2026
Declaration of final results Declaration of final results End April 2026
E.​ Important Dates
* Candidate has to bring all educational and other certificates to attend the written test 
and/or interview for verification. In case of any discrepancy, the candidate will not be 
allowed to attend the written test and/or interview. 
 
 
 
F. Important Note on Eligibility and Admission Cancellation
“IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to immediately cancel the admission of any candidate at any stage of the 
admission process or at any stage of the program, if it is found that the candidate does not fulfill the 
prescribed eligibility criteria as per the official advertisement or the candidate has provided 
incorrect/incomplete information in the Application Form. The decision of the Institute in such matters 
will be final and will be binding on the candidates. All legal matters shall be subject to the jurisdiction of 
the Competent Court and Forum in Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India only."

Sl.No. Name of Sport
1. Archery 34. Mallakhamb
2. Athletics 35. Motor Sports
3. Atya – Patya 36. Net Ball
4. Badminton 37. Para Sports
5. Ball-Badminton 38. Pencak Silat Pencak Silat
6. Baseball 39. Polo
7. Basketball 40. Powerlifting
8. Billiards & Snookers 41. Shooting
Annexure I
Advertisement for Admission under Sports Quota in M.Sc. Computational SociaL Sciences, AY
A.​ Guidelines for Admission to the Seats Reserved under Sports Quota for M.Sc. Programs
are as follows:
•​
Age relaxation will be as per Government of India norms for such candidates.
•​
A 
person 
getting 
any 
of 
the 
first 
three 
positions 
in 
the 
Olympic/World
Game/Commonwealth Game/World Cup Tournaments /Asian Games.
•​
A person representing India in the above-mentioned games/tournaments.
•​
A person representing India in any other official matches abroad and within the country 
approved by SAI or other recognized sports federations.
The list of sports which qualifies for admission under Sports Quota, vide notification No.DOPT- 
1668767575965 Government of India, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions 
Department of Personnel and Training, ESTT. (Estt. D) dated 18 November 2022 is as follows.

9. Body-Building 42. Shooting Ball
10. Boxing 43. Roll Ball
Bridge 44. Roller Skating
Carrom 45. Rowing
Chess 46. Rugby
Cricket 47. Sepak Takraw
Cycling 48. Soft Ball
Cycle Polo 49. Soft Tennis
Deaf Sports 50. Squash
Equestrian 51. Swimming
Fencing 52. Table Tennis
Football 53. Taekwondo
Golf 54. Tenni-Koit
Gymnastics 55. Tennis
Handball 56. Tenpin Bowling
Hockey 57. Triathlon
Ice-Skating 59. Volleyball
Ice-Skiing 60. Weightlifting
Judo 61. Wushu
Kabaddi 62. Wrestling
Karate 63. Yachting
Kayaking​ &
Canoeing 64. Tennis Ball Cricket
Kho – Kho 65. Yogasana

Sl.No. Sports Disciplines Team
Represente
d Name of the
Competition &
Year Venue/D
ate Position Secured
(1, 2, 3)
UNDERTAKING FOR ACHIEVEMENTS IN SPORTS
​
​
,​
​
born​ on
(address) hereby solemnly declare and affirm as follows:
1.​
That as Sportsman/Sportswoman in​
​
(name 
of 
discipline), 
I 
have
​
and also of named position(s)​
as indicated in the table
2.​ That the certificate(s) mentioned above as produced by me in support of the above are
authentic. (Deleted the repetition)
3.​
I understand that if the information/documents supplied by me are found to be false or
incorrect or forged, my admission will stand canceled.
(Signature of the applicant)