SOURCE_PDF: 6c340eadf932_Arrangements-for-consultation-with-or-representation-by---1-638870461574562809.pdf

Arrangements for consultation with or representation by: 
 
(a) Members of the public in policy formulation/policy implementation:
As per Section 4(1)(b)(vii) of the RTI Act, 2005, public authorities are required to disclose 
arrangements for public consultation in policy matters. Based on standard practices at 
autonomous institutes like IIT Jodhpur, governed by the Institutes of Technology Act, 1961/ 
Institutes of Technology (Amendment) Act, 2012 and its statutes, there are no specific provisions 
for direct public consultation in policy formulation or implementation unless explicitly mandated 
by the Ministry of Education or other governing bodies.
Policy formulation typically involves internal bodies such as the Board of Governors, Finance 
committee,Senate, or any other designated committees, which include the renowned academic 
and administrative experts.
However, 
public 
feedback 
is 
being 
considered 
through 
direct 
and 
indirect
stakeholders/involvement of engagements during specific initiatives like innovation workshops, 
industry collaborations, feedback from industry expert, companies visiting for placements etc.
Also IIT Jodhpur engages with stakeholders through the followings:
1. Social Media : Institute is actively have presence on social media and interacts with
students, faculty, alumni, industry partners, and the media. Institute monitors channels 
like Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, and Instagram to address queries, collect suggestions, 
and respond to community feedback..
2. Events like Open House -IIT Jodhpur Padharo in which students, parents, localites join
the event to know more about the Institute, different facilities, and different departments 
turning platform into dynamic channel for feedback and engagement.
3. Other various channels such as public notices, academic and administrative committees,
feedback mechanisms, and community outreach programs.
(b) Day and time allotted for visitors: 
 
Visitors are generally welcomed during official working days (Monday to Friday) between 09:00 
AM and 5:30 PM.

(c) Contact details of Information & Facilitation Counter (IFC): 
 
IIT Jodhpur has an RTI Cell/Information Facilitation Counter (IFC) that assists in providing 
information and handling RTI-related queries. 
 
RTI Cell / IFC Contact: 
 
1. Officer-in-Charge: Sh. Baikuntha Nath Sahu 
Designation: Public Information Officer (CPIO) 
Email: cpio@iitj.ac.in 
Phone: 0291-280-1038 
 
2. Staff Member: Sh. Gaurav Agrawal 
Designation: Superintendent (RTI Cell) 
Phone : 0291-280-1076 
 
Address: 
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur, NH 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar 342030, Jodhpur District, 
Rajasthan, India 
 
RTI Publications: Frequently sought documents (e.g., annual reports, audit reports, employee 
details, recruitment details, tenders, policies) are proactively disclosed and made available at 
https://iitj.ac.in under the RTI section or via the Information & Facilitation Counter upon request.