SOURCE_PDF: 6d8343dcffe6_Process-of-redress-of-grievances--1-638779938916085486.pdf

,r"aflCilX
,/"'/' -, \'\
(.tiH'4)
,*:Hr
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
rrrJ/F.EG/2022-23/32
30July 2022
*rqtffir gTreqr/ oFFICE ORDER
The following Faculty members are hereby appointed as Warden of Hostels for smooth
management of Hostels w.e.f. l"'t August2022:
*Allotment of indioidual Hostel to the wardens will be notified bV SI|VVC separately.
The roles and responsibilities of Hostel Wardens are placed at Annexute A.
To
1. All concerned Faculty Members
Copy to. for kind information
1". Director
2. Dy. Director
3. All Faculty and Staff Members
4. All Dean/Assoc. Deans/Professor-in-charge /Head of Deptts./Centers/School/Divisions
5. Advisor (Administration)
6. Office of Students
7. Office of Account
8. Office of Internal Audit
9. Webmaster for uploading on the INTRANET of Institute Website
Sl.No
Name of Facultv Member
Department
Remark
Boy's
Hostel
1
Arpit Arvind Khandelwal
Electrical engg.
2
Hardik Kothadia
Mechanical Enqq.
J
Jaiveer Singh
Metallurgical & Materials
Ense.
4
Santosh Mogurampelly
Phvsics
5
Subrata Chakraborty
Chemistry
6
Nil Kamal Hazra
Mathematics
7
Rohan D Erande
Chemistry
B
Amit Sharma
Civil & Infrastructure
Enss.
9
Atul K. Sharma
Mechanical Enss.
10
Chandan Pandev
Mechanical Enqg.
B
Srijan sengupta
Pranay Ranjan
Metallurgical & Materials
E.gg.
Dining In-charge
Girl's
Hostel
1
Suman Dhaka
School of Liberal Arts
2
Dilpreet Kar
Mathematics
J
Shobhana Sinsh
Mechanical Ensg.

Annexure - A
Roles and responsibilities of the Hostel Warden & Faculty In-charge Dining (FICD)
Roles and responsibility of the Hostel Warden
1. The wardens shall take the responsibility to ensure a safe, harmonious, and healthy living 
environment in the hostel specifically assigned to him/her.
2. The warden shall act as the local administrator of the hostel and shall be responsible to 
implement the rule and regulations of the institute pertaining to the hostels and its residents. It 
is the responsibility of the warden to maintain discipline in and around the hostel. Student 
General secretary of each hostel should work under the guidance of the warden of that hostel.
3. The warden shall act as the primary reporting as well as an action-taking authority regarding 
any issues related to security, health, and accident of the residents of the hostel assigned to him 
/ her. They will address the medical, social, and personal emergencies of the resident students 
and will attend to the situation in person whenever necessary and may need to go beyond the 
call of duty and extends work hours in an emergency.
4. The warden shall visit the hostel on regular basis. He / She needs to spend daily 1.0 hours 
(minimum) in the warden office on all working days, interact with the residents and resolve 
local issues/problems of the residents. Besides that, the warden should be approachable to the 
students through phone and other means of communication.
5. The warden needs to take proactive measures to keep the Hostel ‘Ragging Free’.
6. Ground staff (care taker and hostel staff) and staff from office of students assign to hostel 
will report to the warden on regular basis regarding the hostel inventory and status of the 
safety measures (fire extinguisher, first –aid). Warden has to take an account of these issues 
and need to do the needful as per the requirement.
7. It is the responsibility of the warden to supervise the hostel events such as ‘Hall Day’ or 
Intra Hostel Sports.
8. The wardens will function under the overall supervision and coordination of the Chairman 
of the Student Hostel Wardens Committee (SHWC) & Associate Dean of Hostel Affairs.
9. All the wardens will be members of SHWC. It is a part of the responsibility of the warden 
to attend the meetings of the SHWC and actively participate in the decision-making.
10. Warden will report any cases of indiscipline / undesired event inside the hostel to the 
SHWC at his/her earliest and may recommend monitory fine or disciplinary actions against the 
offender. The SHWC will discuss the issue and will make a decision on the same. The SHWC 
may also forward the case to the Disciplinary Committee.
11. Purchase requisition of any material related to a specific hostel should be verified and 
recommended by the warden. Warden will act as an indenter for the procurement of items 
specific to the hostel assigned to him/her. Associate Dean (Hostel Affairs) will give the final 
approval for the purchase as per the Institute guidelines or may recommend the same to the 
higher authority.
12. For purchase of materials common to all the hostels or few hostel, the vice president (VP) 
of the board of hostel affairs or the Office of Students may send the requisition to SHWC. On 
the committee’s recommendation, Assistant Registrar/Deputy Registrar/Joint Registrar will act

as an indenter of the procurement for the items which cost is below the ‘approving limit’ of the 
Dean /Associate Dean (Hostel affairs) while Dean /Associate Dean Hostel affairs will be the 
indenter for the procurement of items whose price is higher than their approving power and for 
such cases approval will be given by Deputy director/Director.
13. For any leave/absence from work, the warden needs to inform the Office of students in 
advance. Furthermore, he / she needs to make an alternative arrangement. In such case, the 
warden of another hostel should perform his/her duty and a written consent duly signed by 
them should be submitted to the Office of students.
14. As a part of SHWC activities, Wardens need to review the rules and guidelines of the 
hostels periodically and need to recommended appropriate changes.
Roles and responsibilites of the Faculty-in-Charge, Dining (FICD)
1. The FICD shall lead the dining committee and monitor the overall cleanliness, hygiene, and 
ambiance of the dining hall and mess kitchen.
2. FICD, along with the dining committee members shall check the quality and quantity of the 
cooked food. He shall also lead the drive to check the brand and the quality of the raw materials 
used and their storage condition.
3. FICD shall take initiative to sensitize the students about appropriate dining etiquette and 
special practices (e.g. COVID appropriate behaviour in the dining hall)
4. It is the responsibility of the FICD to take necessary action to prevent food waste.
5. FICD shall inspect the condition of the Dining hall and mess kitchen daily, interact with the 
students in the dining and prepare a weekly report on the same.
6. It is the responsibility of the FICD to maintain discipline in and around the dining area.
7. FICD shall be actively involved in selecting the dining menu and fixing the dining time.
8. FICD will function under the overall supervision and coordination of the Chairman of 
Student Hostel Wardens Committee (SHWC) & Associate Dean of Hostel Affairs. FICD will 
also be a member of SHWC.
9. FICD will report any cases of indiscipline / undesired event inside the Dining hall/ mess to 
the SHWC at his/her earliest and may recommend monitory fine or disciplinary actions against 
the offender. The SHWC will discuss the issue and will take a decision on the same. The 
SHWC may also forward the case to Disciplinary committee.
10. FICD shall investigate any grievance related to food and service and guide the SHWC to 
take appropriate decision on that issue.
11. FICD is empowered to conduct surprise audit to the dining and kitchen area.
12. FICD will be the indenter for any specific purchase related to Dining and Mess. The same 
will be approved by the Associate Dean (Hostel Affairs).