SOURCE_PDF: 78dcea777652_AR2011-12.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Annual Report 2011-2012

Contents
From the Director’s Desk
Academics
Facilities
Faculty Activities
Institute Staff
Student Activities
Financial Brief

From the Director’s Desk
Four years since its inception, with its first batch of undergraduate students having completed 
their programs, Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur continues to make its signatory mark 
in the academia worthy of a premier educational institute in India. At present, the institute 
offers B.Tech programs in Computer Science and Engineering, Electrical Engineering, 
Mechanical Engineering, and System Science. In the academic year 2011-2012, he institute 
has designed a B. Tech. program and a minor program in Biologically-inspired Systems 
Science and in Art, Culture, and Heritage respectively, programs which are scheduled to 
commence from July 2013. IIT Jodhpur offers M.Tech and PhD programs at the Center of 
Excellence in Energy, Centre of Excellence in Information and Communication Technology 
(ICT), and the Centre of Excellence in Systems Science (SS). In addition, the institute is 
looking forward to offering a PhD program from July 2013 in Biologically-inspired Systems 
Science.
In order to promote inter-disciplinary culture in each and every academic activity, IIT 
Jodhpur does not adopt the structure of academic departments based on the individual 
disciplines. Accordingly, IIT Jodhpur is committed to developing state of the art, research-led 
and multidisciplinary centres of excellence where scholars from different disciplines carry 
out productive research on emerging and technological, scientific, and social issues that 
characterize the challenges faced by the contemporary world. The CoEs create a distinctive 
interdisciplinary and collaborative learning environment, giving our students a global outlook 
and holistic problem-solving approach. We aim to produce students who are highly 
innovative and entrepreneurial, and are proud that last year our students were hired by some 
of the best national and international companies. Now IIT Jodhpur has five Centers of 
Excellence—in Energy, Information and Communication Technology, Systems Science, 
Biologically-inspired Systems Science, and Art, Culture, and Heritage—the last two of these 
centers were initiated in the academic year 2011-12. 
 
The institute remains a locus of vibrant academic activities. Academic seminars, workshops, 
and lectures from experts belonging to various fields contribute substantially to the 
intellectual vigour prevailing in the campus. The research at IIT Jodhpur is focused on 
solving socio-economic problems and creating cost-effective technological solutions. With 
the help of our collaborators, the vision of our faculty, and a team of highly motivated 
students we aim to make IIT Jodhpur one of the premier institutes in the world. We are very 
proud of our students, faculty, and visiting faculty from around the country and the world. 
 
IIT Jodhpur is committed to environmentally-friendly practices. Almost our entire campus is 
powered by solar energy and our permanent campus has been planned as a “net zero energy 
campus”, generating all the energy that it requires, and with net zero waste generation and 
carbon emissions. 
 
Presently, the institute is functioning from a temporary campus in MBM Engineering 
College, Ratanada, Jodhpur. In the forthcoming years, the institute will be shifted to its own 
residential campus near Nagaur in Jodhpur. The government has acquired 872 acres of land 
for the institute and the construction of the boundary wall is being completed, and so is an 33 
KV electric substation. An MoU has been signed with Arid Forest Research Institute for 
designing and developing an urban forestry model for the institute. The institute has 
successfully completed the selection of the campus master planner. It is envisioned that the 
new campus of IIT Jodhpur would stand as a symbol of academic excellence while creating a

multi-cultural ethos with centers such as an Eco Village, an Arts and Culture Centre and an 
International Inter-Cultural Activity Centre, all of which would contribute to the holistic 
development of its community.

Organization
The Board of Governors
The Finance Committee
The Building and Works Committee
Institute Committees
Student Council

List of Members of the Board of Governors
Chairman
Prof. Goverdhan Mehta (FNA, FRS) 
University of Hyderabad 
Department of Organic Chemistry, 
Central University PO, 
Hyderabad - 500 046, 
Andhra Pradesh
Director (Ex-officio)
Prof. Prem K. Kalra 
Director, IIT Rajasthan 
Old Residency Road, Ratanada, 
Jodhpur – 342011
Member-Nominees of the IIT Council
Mr. Ashok Thakur 
Additional Secretary, 
Department of Higher Education, 
Ministry of Human Resource Development, 
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi- 110 001
Mr. K P Singh 
Chairman, DLF Limited 
DLF Center, Sansad Marg 
New Delhi 110 001
Mr. Ashank Desai 
Chairman, Mastek 
Mastek Limited, #106/107 
SDF-IV, Seepz, Andheri(E) 
Mumbai 400096
Mr. Mukul Kasliwal 
Chairman 
MW Corp. pvt. Ltd. 
99, Niranjan

Marine Drive 
Mumbai 400 002
State Government Nominee
Mr. Vipin Chand Sharma 
Principal Secretary, 
Technical Education, 
Government of Rajasthan 
Jaipur, Rajasthan
Special Invitee
Prof. S G Dhande 
Director, IIT Kanpur 
208016
List of Members of the Finance Committee
Chairman
Prof. Goverdhan Mehta (FNA, FRS) 
University of Hyderabad 
Department of Organic Chemistry, 
Central University PO, 
Hyderabad - 500 046, 
Andhra Pradesh
Members
Prof. Prem K. Kalra 
Director, IIT Rajasthan 
Old Residency Road, Ratanada, 
Jodhpur - 342011
Mr. Ashok Thakur 
Additional Secretary, 
Department of Higher Education,

Ministry of Human Resource Development, 
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi- 110 001
Mr. G S Sood 
CMD National Scheduled Tribe, 
NBCC Tower, Finance & Development 
Hall No 1, 5th Floor, 15 Bhikaji Cama Place 
New Delhi 110 066
Mr. Umesh Kumar (IAS) 
N-1, Ghandinagar 
Bajaj Nagar Road, 
Jaipur 302015
Mr. S K Ray 
Additional Secretary & Financial Advisor 
Department of Higher Education 
Ministry of HRD, Shastri Bhawan 
New Delhi - 110001
List of Members of the Building and Works Committee
Chairman
Prof. Prem K. Kalra 
Director, IIT Rajasthan 
Old Residency Road, Ratanada, 
Jodhpur – 342011
Members
Ms. Pratima Dikshit 
Director, 
Department of Technical Education, 
Ministry of Human Resource Development, 
Shastri Bhawan, 
New Delhi 110 001
Mr. N.M.D. Jain 
ADG, CPWD (Retd.), 
170, 1st Floor, Jagriti Enclave, 
Delhi

Ms. Usha Kasana 
Chief Architect, 
Public Works Department 
Government of Rajasthan 
Jacob Road 
Jaipur
Prof. Neeraj Gupta 
Visiting Faculty 
IIT Rajasthan, 
Jodhpur
Institute Committees
Academic Committee: The committee co-ordinates all UG programs with representatives 
from each discipline and PG programs through the respective CoEs. Library matters also fall 
under this purview.
Dr. Venkata Ramana (Coordinator)
Dr. Deepak Fulwani (Coordinator, PG Programs)
Dr. Barun Pratihar (CoE Energy)
Dr. Ambesh Dixit (CoE Energy)
Mr. Anupam Gupta (CoE ICT)
Dr. Arnab Datta (CoE ICT)
Dr. Satyabrata Adhikari (CoE SS)
Dr. Subhashish Banerjee (CoE SS)
Dr. Meenu Chhabra (CoE BISS)
Dr. Sushmita Jha (CoE BISS)
Dr. Laltu Chandra (Coordinator, Library)
Dr. Anand Plapally (International Student Exchange)
Dr. Gourishankar Hiremath

Two Student Represetatives
Student Affairs:
Dr. Rahul Chhibber (Coordinator)
Dr. Amit Mishra (WAVES)
Dr. Pradeep (NUTS)
Dr. Vidya Sarveshwaran and Dr. Sushmita Jha (Counselling Service)
Dr. S. P. Tiwari and Dr. S Harinipriya (SAGE)
Dr. Chandramouli (PROM)
Two Student Representatives
Council of Wardens: Hostels, House Allotment and Guesthouse:
Dr. Akhilesh Mohan (Chairman)
Dr. Satyabrata Adhikari
Dr. Meenu Chhabra
Dr. Sushmita Jha
Dr. Anand Plapally
Dr. Gourishankar Hiremath
Dr. Rahul Chhiber
Dr. V. Narayan
Dr. Harinarayan
Dr. Atul Kumar
Dr. K. J. George
Dr. Ashutosh Alok
Dr. S. P. Tiwari

Placement: Student Placement and Internships
Dr. Gaurav Harit (Coordinator)
Dr. Pradeep
Dr. Mainak Mazumdar
Dr. Anand Plapally
Two Student Representatives
Administration: This committee deals with media and public relations, non-academic staff 
recruitment, RTI, Hindi Cell, Health/Medical, space allocation, security, legal cell, finance, 
stores and purchases, institute functions, outreach activities, facility management.
Dr. Rajiv Shekhar (Coordinator)
Dr. K. J. George (Security)
Dr. Anil Tiwari (Health)
Dr. Rahul Singhal (Non-academic staff recruitment)
Dr. Atul Kumar (Facility management)
Dr. Atul Dubey (Legal Cell)
Dr. M. Nagaraja (RTI)
Dr. Ashutosh Alok (Outreach)
Dr. Vivek Vijay (Media and Public)
Dr. Bibhas Adhikari (Institute Functions)
Dr. Puneet Sharma (Hindi Cell)
Dr. Tanmay Paul

Research and Development: All project management (consultancy, sponsored, testing 
services, IPR, MoUs, Enterpreneurship, incubation and innovation, workshops and 
conferences, continuing education, tech transfer.
Dr. B. Ravinda (Coordinator)
Dr. V. Narayan (Sponsored workshops)
Dr. Ravindra Arora (Policy issues)
Dr. Rakesh Sharma (Recruitment and Automation)
Dr. Sonam Melhotra (IP, MoUs, Corporate Communications)
Dr. Rakesh Saxena (Stores and Purchases)
Drs. Harinipriya and Sandeep Yadav (Incubation and Innovation)
Faculty Affairs: Faculty recruitment, probation and regularization, students feedback, CPDA 
approvals, LTC and Leave, faculty meetings
Dr. Vivek Vijay (Coordinator)
Dr. Harinarayanan (CPDA)
Dr. Shalingram Tiwari (LTC and Leave)
Dr. Manish Srimali (Faculty Meetings and Students Feedback)
Dr. Ansu Louis (Faculty Exchange)
Coordinators of each CoE
Lab Development: UG and PG Labs
Dr. Sandeep Yadav (Coordinator)
Dr. Ashutosh Alok (CoE SS)
Dr. Deepak Fulwani (CoE SS)
Dr. Amit Mishra (CoE BiSS)

Dr. Meenu Chhabra (CoE BiSS)
Dr. C. M. Nagaraja (CoE Energy)
Dr. P. Pradeep (CoE Energy)
Dr. Anil Tiwari (CoE ICT)
Mr. Anupam Gupta (CoE ICT)
Automation
Dr. Rakesh Sharma (Coordinator)
Dr. C. M. Nagaraja
Dr. Atul Dubey
Dr, Ambesh Dixit
Dr. Kiran Hiremath
Dr. P. Joglekar
Dr. Gaurav Harit
Student Council
President, SCHoD Ranjan Kumar 
 
General Executive, SAGE Sachin Kumar Singh 
 
General Executive, NUTS Shashank kumar 
 
General Executive, MAD Syed faizul hai 
 
General Executive, WAWES Akshay Hari Kumar 
 
General Executive, PROM Rishi Ayyer 
 
Fourth Year Senators Krishna Sudhama and Rohit Maitri 
 
Third Year Senators Vaibhav Gundre and Shobhit Mandloi
Second Year Senator Mayur Ghatge
First Year Senator Ashish Kumar
Girls Senator Geervani Soni
PG senator Durgesh Kumar

Academics
Academic Programs
Centers of Excellence
International Relations
R & D Projects
Undergraduate Research & Innovation Program (UGRI)
High School Summer Camp
Conferences and Workshops
Innovation & Incubation
Short-Term Courses
Weekly Academic Seminars
Scholarship for Students
Foreign Language Training
Internship for Students

Academic Programs
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur offers B.Tech. programs in the following disciplines:
1) Computer Science and Engineering 
2) Electrical Engineering 
3) Mechanical Engineering 
4) Systems Science
The institute has also decided to start a B. Tech. program and a minor program from July 
2013 in Biologically-inspired Systems Science and in Art, Culture, and Heritage respectively.
IIT Jodhpur offers two-year M.Tech. programs in the following centers:
 
Centre of Excellence in Energy
 
Centre of Excellence in Information and Communication Technology (ICT)
 
Centre of Excellence in Systems Science (SS)
PhD Program is offered in the following three centers of excellence in IIT Rajasthan:
 
Centre of Excellence in Energy
 
Centre of Excellence in Information and Communication Technology (ICT)
 
Centre of Excellence in Systems Science (SS)
In addition, the institute is looking forward to offering a PhD program from July 2013 in 
Biologically-inspired Systems Science.
Centers of Excellence
IIT Jodhpur is committed to developing state of the art, research-led and multidisciplinary 
centres of excellence where scholars from different disciplines carry out productive research 
on emerging and technological, scientific, and social issues that characterize the challenges 
faced by the contemporary world. In order to promote the inter-disciplinary culture in each 
and every academic activity, IIT Jodhpur does not adopt the structure of establishing the 
academic departments based on the individual disciplines. Only undergraduate programs are 
offered in the individual disciplines. Presently, IIT Jodhpur has five Centers of Excellence—
in Energy, Information and Communication Technology, Systems Science, Biologically-
inspired Systems Science, and Art, Culture, and Heritage—the last two of these centers were 
initiated in the academic year 2011-12.

Center of Excellence in Energy
Introduction
Developing economical and environmentally sustainable energy sources is imperative for 
India’s long-term growth. To achieve such objectives, IIT Jodhpur has developed an inter-
disciplinary academic curriculum that will generate experts in different facets of energy 
generation and utilization with a holistic, systems-based approach for solving real-life 
problems. The post-graduate program in Energy admits students from all branches of 
engineering and sciences.
Academic Curriculum
The academic curriculum has compulsory and elective components. Compulsory courses 
expose students to (i) different mechanical and electrical processes related to power 
generation and transmission, (ii) physics of semiconductor devices associated with solar 
photovoltaics, and (iii) concepts of systems engineering for designing complex projects by 
integrating knowledge from different sub-systems. Extensive laboratory experiments and 
projects supplement the compulsory courses. The electives allow students to choose from a 
variety of courses based on their interests: solar and nuclear power, bioenergy systems, 
electrochemical power sources, power electronics, energy materials, structural dynamics, 
two-phase flow, and solar refrigeration and air-conditioning. Summer bridge courses are 
offered to students immediately after their admission to prepare them for the multi-
disciplinary compulsory courses offered in the first semester.
Research and Development
Research and development efforts focus on the development of low-cost technology 
initiatives to implement renewable energy generation and usage through extensive industry-
academia collaboration. Being located in Jodhpur, the sun city of India, harnessing solar 
energy for power generation and cooling/heating has been the primary focus of the R&D 
efforts under the auspices of the Centre for Solar Energy Technologies (CSET).
CSET has been designated as a Centre of Excellence in Solar Thermal Energy by the 
Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE), Govt. of India. IIT Jodhpur has 
earmarked a 200 acre land on its permanent campus for creating a solar park, comprising 
various technologies under one roof. The CSET will consist of (i) Solar thermal and solar PV 
Technology Demonstration Units (TDUs), (ii) facilities for R&D for developing value-added 
applications of solar energy technologies, (iii) facilities for testing, calibration and 
benchmarking for both solar thermal and solar PV technologies, and (iv) HRD and 
knowledge services. CSET is geared to giving its students a vibrant, laboratory-to-plant scale 
research experience. Major grants to CSET have been received from MNRE and the Asian 
Development Bank.

The institute has Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) with AREVA, CEA France, Indian 
Oil Limited, BHEL, Thermax, NFTDC-Hyderabad for collaboration in R&D in energy. 
Further, the center has Academic and Research collaboration agreements with the University 
of Waterloo, University of California, Merced, University of Western Ontario, URV 
Tarragona, Spain.
Major Research Themes and Goals
1. Solar absorber coatings and thermic fluids 
2. Volumetric air receivers for heat and power generation 
3. Thermal storage 
4. DC smart micro-grid 
5. Characterization of crystalline and amorphous silicon based photovoltaic power systems. 
6. Electrochemical power sources and storage focussing on lithium ion batteries and fuel
cells
7. Hydrogen generation by water splitting 
8. Solar cooling
Associated Faculty as on 31 July 2012:
S. Harinipriya, Laltu Chandra, Pradeep Kumar P, V. Narayanan, B. Ravindra, Rahul 
Chhibber, Meenu Chhabra, Shaligram Tiwari, Rakesh K. Sharma, Ambesh Dixit, B. 
Pratihar, Vidya Sarveshwaran, Gourishankar Hiremath, Anand Plapally, Mainak Mazumdar, 
Rajiv Shekhar.

The International Centre for Application of Solar Energy Technologies (ICASET) is a joint 
initiative of the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the Indian Institute of Technology 
Jodhpur, Jodhpur (IITJ). Funding for ICASET has been provided by ADB.
Center of Excellence in Information and Communication Technology (ICT)
Education, knowledge, information, and communication are at the core of human progress, 
endeavour, and well-being. Information and Communication Technology (ICT) has an 
immense impact on virtually all aspects of our lives. The rapid progress of ICT opens up 
completely new opportunities to attain higher levels of development. For the first time in 
history, the capacity of these technologies to reduce many traditional obstacles, especially 
those of time and distance, has been recognized in such a way that millions of people in all 
corners of the world would benefit. Yet this Center of Excellence holds the view that ICT 
should be regarded as a tool and not as an end in itself. Under favourable conditions, the 
technology can be a powerful instrument, increasing productivity, generating economic 
growth, job creation and employability, and also improving the quality of life of all.
The CoE in ICT strives for "Functionality and Cost-Driven" Research and Development. 
Here, capturing the requirements and specifying the functionality of the devices/technologies 
is the starting point of any problem statement. The primary focus is on carrying out research 
on low-cost device design and developing technology to fulfil the increasing social 
requirements. From a technological standpoint, we lay emphasis on Embedded Design, 
System Integration and Hardware Benchmarking. The above mentioned theme sets the 
following set of research areas and goals for us.
Major Goals of the Center
 
to harness the potential of recent technological advances to solve the existing socio-
economic and environmental problems.
 
to turn the digital divide into a digital opportunity for all by means of functionality 
driven low-cost hardware design.
 
to develop a breeding ground for learners, developers, contributors, entrepreneurs and 
decision-makers.
 
to work in the direction of building an inclusive society with the participation of 
government, private sector, and international organizations.
Research Themes
 
Developing low-cost networking solutions - cheaper internet everywhere.
 
Developing low-cost access devices.
 
Developing low-cost e-Healthcare solutions.
o Computer Vision/ Signal Processing/ Medical Imaging
 
Hardware Design and Benchmarking.
o Embedded Systems
 
Low cost Access Devices for Education/Health Monitoring
 
EDA tools

o Instrumentation and Testing 
o Robotics and Automation 
o Biomimetics
 
Sustaining environment through ICT.
 
Networks/ Sensor Networks
The CoE-ICT is an inter-disciplinary venture. It hosts the top-notch scientists with a 
background ranging from Mathematical Sciences, Natural Sciences to applied fields of 
Systems Engineering, and other disciplines of Engineering. It works to solve social problems, 
and these problems are highly inter-disciplinary in nature.
The center started M. Tech. Program in ICT in the academic year 2011-12. Twenty-six 
students were admitted to the program. Thirteen PhD students also joined the center in this 
academic year. The center also initiated two laboratories—Networking Technologies Lab and 
SOC Lab. The center’s achievements include providing the right hardware and software tools 
for many industry consultancy projects, including the development of DRM/DRM+ IP for 
digital radio standards.
Associated Faculty as on 31 July 2012:
Akhilesh Mohan, Anil Kumar Tiwari, Arnab Datta, Gaurav Harit, Sandeep Kumar Yadav, 
Shanmuganathan Raman, Shree Prakash Tiwari, VenkataRamana Badarla
Center of Excellence in Systems Science

core members of SS, Dr. Bibhas Adhikari, Dr. Vivek Vijay, Dr B. Ravindra and Mr. Anupam
Gupta, visited various reputed Universities of Canada including the University of Western
processes that are becoming increasingly complex
2) Develop rigorous mathematical frameworks that give a deeper insight into a lot of
interesting and complex problems in natural sciences
3) Investigate the isomorphy of ideas, laws, and models in various fields of science
and engineering
4) Develop new methods for the forecasting and quantification of uncertainties in
lieu of societal concerns that have led to regulatory actions for more stringent 
requirements for the safety and reliability of products demand
5) Process large scale data in order to extract better information and knowledge.
However, keeping in mind factors such as the emerging challenges for the Indian economy 
due to globalization, the growing concern for sustainable development because of the limited 
availability of resources, and the increasing sensitivity to anthropogenic effects on the 
environment, the CoE would also continually analyze and evaluate its activities in a broader 
social context, over and above the basic concerns presented above. 
 
The major Research Theme of SS at present include
1) Signals, Systems and Control Theory 
2) Linear and Non-Linear Dynamical System 
3) Systems Reliability, Security and Risk Management 
4) Social and Economic System and its Dynamics 
5) Complex Networks 
6) System Application in Business and Industry 
7) Mathematical Physics and Cosmology 
8) Quantum Physics and Quantum Information 
9) Mechatronics, Systems integration and Design 
10) Financial Systems and Econometrics 
11) Computational Finance

(BiSS). This unique Center of Excellence initiated during the academic year 2011-2012 with
SS and to fine tune it with the international standard. Further, in the workshop on Systems 
Science: Complex Networks & Applications, conducted from May 7 – 9, 2012 the course 
curriculum of M. Tech. and PhD Program was further debated and discussed before it was 
finalized and launched. Given the inter-disciplinary nature of the subject, the SS center of IIT 
Jodhpur has an agglomeration of faculty members from various disciplines such as 
Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Economics, System & Control, Mechanical Engineering 
etc.
Associated Faculty Members as on 31 July 2012 
 
Ashutosh Kumar Alok, Atul Kumar, Bibhas Adhikari, Kirankumar Rajshekhar Hiremath, 
Mainak Mazumdar, Puneet Sharma, Pushkar Shripad Joglekar, Rakesh Kumar Sharma 
Satyabrata Adhikari, Subhashish Banerjee, Vivek Vijayvargiya, and V.V.M. Sarma 
Chandramouli 
 
 
Center of Excellence in Biologically-inspired Systems Science (BiSS)
Concept Note and Course Curriculum 
Outline

Major Research Themes and Initiatives
1. information processing in the brain 
2. cognitive processes 
3. emergent phenomenon of consciousness 
4. bio-inspired modelling and designing, algorithms, mechanics, real world applications 
5. BiSS spans many levels of analysis, from low-level learning and decision mechanisms
to high-level logic and planning, from neural circuitry to modular brain organization
6. Bio-signal Processing 
7. Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience and Computational Neuroscience.
The CoE BiSS is looking forward to offering a four year bachelor (B. Tech.) program and a 
doctoral program starting from July 2013.
Associated Members as on 31 July 2012
Manish Srimali, Meenu Chhabra, Hari Narayan V., K. J. George, Sushmita Jha, Amit Mishra, 
Sonam Malhotra, Ansu Louis
Center of Art, Culture, and Heritage (COACH)
IIT Jodhpur has begun preparation for a Center of Art, Culture, and Heritage in the academic 
year 2011-2012. This is a calculated move to decipher and advance the world of the art, 
culture, and heritage, especially of those belonging to indigenous traditions. On this score, an 
ambitious but cautious plan is being chalked out in the form of programs, educational courses 
and workshops that can educate the global public at this proposed center.
Objectives
a. To offer a minor in art, culture and heritage including 8 inter-disciplinary
courses. This will become a platform for establishing the center of art, culture,
and heritage with various academic programs
b. To improve understanding of and intervene (from an appropriate
interdisciplinary perspective) in the dynamics of the fields of art, culture, and 
heritage
c. To ensure the sustainability of Indian art culture and heritage by
identification, conservation and promotion of required research and its

economic value nationally and globally through mutually beneficial
collaborations
d. To bridge, in an unconventional manner, the perennial gap between the arts
and the sciences
Mission
1. To evolve novel strategies in order to offer artistic and technologically integrated 
educational platforms in the field of art, culture and heritage utilizing inter-
disciplinary approaches.
2. To establish training facilities and impart knowledge in the field of music, 
literature, archeology and visual arts to all, irrespective of social, national and 
continental boundaries.
3. To establish state-of-the-art performance and research facilities in preservation with 
special reference to traditional art forms, rare human vocal and performing skills and 
architecture blending it with scientific technology and perform research and 
development.
4. To develop policies and resources for reliable re-engineering of traditional devices 
and methods. The center will basically aim to rehabilitate as well as encourage 
societies performing art of any kind.
7. To improve the communication between art, cultural aspects and technology.
Among the challenges are establishing revival practices, sustainable space for imaginations in 
art and technology synergy, creating novel minds who can assimilate this synergy, increasing 
literacy of art, and encouraging artists to present and popularize art using the state of art 
technology. By bridging the gap between arts and science, COACH supports experimental 
projects and interacts with established national and international institutions of art and 
science to collaborate on education and research. The outline of the proposed COACH can be 
illustrated as follows.

Figure 1: Representation of various aspects to be covered under COACH.
International Relations
MoUs between IIT Rajasthan and International and National Institutions and Agencies
1. University of Western Ontario, Canada (09/08/2010)
To explore the possibilities for cooperation in education, training, and research and 
also to encourage direct contact and mutual cooperation between faculty members, 
departments, and research centers
2. Universitat Rovira I Virgili, Tarrgona, Spain (29/08/2010)
Development of mutually beneficial academic program and courses; coordination of 
academic staff travel for the purposes of teaching, research, and training; cooperation 
of student mobility program for study, research, and for joint academic activities such 
as research publications, conferences and symposia; exchange of documentation and 
research materials in the field of mutual interest provided that there are no legal 
barriers against exchange and collaboration in international master’s and doctoral 
programs between both the institutions

3. The Commissariat a I’Energie Atomique et aux Energies Alternatives France
(22/11/10) 
Cooperation in the areas of solar energy research, such as Concentrated Solar Power 
(CSP) and Concentrated Photovoltic (CPV), water production by using solar energy, 
renewable energy storage and smart management, integration of solar energies and 
energy efficiency in buildings
4. University of Waterloo, Canada (25/11/2010)
Collaborative measures to foster international experience and advancement of 
knowledge on the basis of reciprocity, mutual benefit, interaction and exchange of 
students in graduate programs
5. University of Manitoba, Canada (09/12/2010)
Development of mutually beneficial programs for student internships and graduate 
study in order to provide students opportunities for advancement of knowledge and 
international experience
6. Embassy of France in India (28/03/2011)
For exploring prospective domains for students and scholars to learn French language 
effectively
7. University of California, Merced (26/04/2011)
Development of mutually beneficial relationships for promoting academic exchange, 
scholarly cooperation, and collaborations under mutually agreeable terms and 
conditions: the exchange of faculty members, scientists and students and scientific 
material, access to library resources, pursuit of joint meetings, symposia and/or 
conferences and access to laboratories as may be appropriate and feasible in the two 
institutes
8. Arid Forest Research Institute, Jodhpur, India (15-08-2011)
Development of sheltering belt plantation as urban forestry model for at a selected site 
at IIT Jodhpur
9. Institute of Science and Technology, Nara, Japan (28/02/2012)
To promote academic exchanges in fields where each party needs to enhance its 
educational and academic programs: the academic exchanges will include, 
implementation of collaborative research, joint symposia, lectures and education and 
exchange of scholars, researchers, and administrative staff; exchange of information 
in fields which are of interest to both parties and exchange of graduate students in 
fields of interest to both parties
MoUs with Industries
1. National Instruments (NI) Systems (India) Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore (dated
25/11/2010) 
National Instruments and IIT Jodhpur work together through research and 
development to develop the Institute as well-recognized center of excellence in the 
fields of wireless communication and physical layer technologies. Furthermore,

National Instruments, being the supplier of computer-based instrumentation hardware 
and software product developed by its affiliated both from the academia and industry, 
expressed its desire to establish a graphical system design center for students and 
professionals across the nation.
2. Areva Renouvelable, France (dated 06/12/2010)
Cooperation in R&D area, such as characterization of reflector, dirtying rates and 
soiling materials in relationship with local air quality; development of a DNI 
measurement survey laboratory and techniques for assaying the date to predict and 
optimize CSP performance; clouds detection and anticipation methods and techniques 
to adapt CSP process control operating conditions for maximizing energy production; 
development of a testing and bench marking laboratory for solar systems with due 
attention to Areva Renouvelable technology in the Indian context
3. C-Wet and SRRA (dated 10/05/2011)
Collaboration in establishing a solar radiation resource assessment station
4. Bharat Heavy Electricals Limites (BHEL), Indian Oil Corporation Limited
(IOC) (dated 17/10/2011) 
Collaborate for the promotion of research, innovation, and education and providing a 
model for industry-academia partnership in the following broad objectives: Basic 
research in solar energy and up-scaling performance validation of solar technologies
5. ITI Limited (dated 16/12/2011)
To introduce co-operative development and research in areas such as Optical 
Communication 
including 
free 
space 
Optical 
communication, 
Encryption
technologies, embedded systems, SCADA and NMS system, and radio and 
microwave communications
6. Amaitha Wireless Technologies (dated 02/02/2012)
Cooperation in the conceptualization, design and development of computing, 
communication, and converged devices associated software and required functionality 
affordable in optimum cost
7. Quad Electronics Private Limited ( dated 14/01/2012)
Cooperation in research and development computing and communication devices that 
can be of interest to the entire population and can serve to bridge digital divide of 
India
8. Steag Energy Services (SESI) (dated 23-04-2012)
Mutual agreement for the development of a dynamic solar thermal simulator and 
collaboration for research and training on the solar thermal simulator
International Collaborations
During the academic year 2011-2012, representatives of several leading academic institutions 
have visited IIT Jodhpur seeking collaboration in matters related to teaching and research. 
The visitors included:
Prof. Vipin Kumar (Oct. 27-29, 2011)

Department of Mechanical Engineering
University of Washington.
Prof. Vimal Chaitanya (Nov. 17, 2011)
Vice President of Research
New Mexico State University.
Prof. Jonathan, B. and Prof. J. P. Burak (Feb. 20-23, 2012)
Dean of Faculty of Engineering
University of Manitoba.
Prof. S. Shariq (Feb 07, 2012)
Director, Project on Knowledge, Beliefs, and Institutions
School of Human. and Sciences
Stanford University.

Project Title Sponsoring
Agency Principal
Investigator Sanctioned
Amount (Rs.) Duration /
Expiry Date
Creation of Virtual
Class-Rooms at IITs
over National
Knowledge Network National
Informatics
Centre Dr. Gaurav
Harit 1,51,79,860/- 1 Year
Low Cost Access-cum-
Computing Devices MHRD Dr. Sandeep
Yadav 47,72,00,000/- 19-Mar-12
The Village Community
Network: Technology
Development and Pilot
Roll out Plan for Low
Cost Opportunistic
Communication
Networks for Rural
Areas of India MHRD Prof. P K
Kalra, Dr. K
S Daya (DEI) 6,00,00,000/- 31-Dec-12
E-Books on
Introduction to High
Energy Physics,
Introduction to
Astroparticle Physics
and Instrumentation
Methods in
Astroparticle Physics MHRD Prof. P K
Kalra, Dr. S
Bhatnagar
(DEI) 14,00,000/- 31-Dec-12
Development of Low
Cost Mobile Robots -
Robotics for Education MHRD Dr. Swagat
Kumar 1,55,80,000/- 31-Dec-12
Development of
Analysis and Indexing
Tools for Harnessing
Educational Videos MHRD Dr. Gaurav
Harit 32,45,000/- 31-Dec-12
NI-SENSOR &
NETWORKS LAB NI Systems
(I) Pvt. Ltd.,
Bangalore Dr. Sandeep
Yadav 5,00,000/- 1 year
List of R&D Projects

Cross MAC & PHY
Layer Research NI Systems
(I) Pvt. Ltd.,
Bangalore Dr. Sandeep
Yadav 5,00,000/- 6 months
Language, Cognition &
the Human Mind Indian
Council of
Philosophical
Research,
MHRD Dr. Hari
Narayanan V. 50,000/- 3 years
Conceptualization and
Design Study for
Freespace Material
Characterization
Facility Defence
Research &
Development
Organisation,
Jodhpur Dr. Akhilesh
Mohan 5,69,000/- 1 Year
One Stop Educational
Portal Chhattisgarh
Infotech &
Biotech
Promotion
Society Prof. P K
Kalra 40,85,934/- 2 years
Identification,
assessment and
Characterization of E3
Ubiquitin Ligases and
Molecular Chaperones
Implicated in
Neurogenerative
Diseases Department
of Science &
Technology Dr. Amit
Mishra 5,56,000/- 2 years
Establishment of the
Centre of Excellence in
Solar Thermal Research
and Education Ministry of
New &
Renewable
Energy Prof. Rajiv
Shekhar 40,00,00,000/- 5 years
Study of Aligned
CNT/Polymer
Nanocomposites for
Hydrogen Storage Science and
Engineering
Research
Board, DST Dr. Balram
Tripathi 25,92,000/- 3 years
Development of
Intelligent
Instrumentation and
Cellular
Communication
Courses NI Systems
(I) Pvt. Ltd.,
Bangalore Dr. Sandeep
Yadav 5,00,000/- 6 months

Development of
DRM/DRM+ Standards NI Systems
(I) Pvt. Ltd.,
Bangalore Dr. Sandeep
Yadav 25,00,000/- 6 months
Generation, Storage and
Distribution of Solar
Hydrogen Department
of Science &
Technology Dr. Rakesh
Sharma 39,63,600/- 2 years
Advancement in
Nuclear Reactor Design
Pertaining to NRFCC Department
of Atomic
Energy Dr. Vivek
Vijay 4,30,000/- 1 year
Reproductive Child
Health UNICEF,
Jaipur Branch Dr. Sandeep
Yadav 20,86,500/- 2 years 3
months
Molecular Sensors:
Synthesis and Anion
Recognition Studies Science and
Engineering
Research
Board, DST Dr. Rakesh
Sharma 27,69,000/- 3 years
Concentrated Solar
Power Plant Indian Oil
Corpn. Ltd. Prof. Rajiv
Shekhar 60,00,000/- 3 years
Development of
Programmable
Emulator for
Photovoltaic Plant to
Facilitate Complex
Testing Requirements Science and
Engineering
Research
Board, DST Dr. Deepak
Fulwani 9,48,000/- 3 years
Innovation and
Incubation Centre Rajasthan
State
Government
with IIT
Rajasthan Dr. Sandeep
Yadav 2,50,00,000/- 1 year
Asymmetric
Hydrogenation on
Carbon Nanotube
Surface Department
of Science &
Technology Dr. Rakesh
Sharma 34,02,360/- 2 Years

developments. This year the institute received nearly 730 applications, four times more than
applications for the UGRI 2012. Students were selected purely on the basis of academic
Undergraduate Research & Innovation Program (UGRI- 2012)
This year’s UGRI program began on May 8, 2012 and end on July 20, 2012 (for the duration 
of 10 weeks). Selected students were provided accommodation at student hostel in IITJ. 
During this period, a remuneration of Rs. 8000 per month was offered as Financial 
Assistance. Furthermore, the students received an additional Rs. 2000 for preparing posters 
and interim reports. The students worked on projects related to Energy, Health, Environment, 
and ICT (Information, Communication and Technologies).
High School Summer Camp
During summer IIT Jodhpur invites applications from senior secondary students (Class XI or 
XII) from schools in Jodhpur with an intention to nurture their curiosity to know the 
unknown. In so doing, the faculty members of the institute answer their queries and expose 
them to state-of-the-art technologies. The students having marksheet of class X are eligible to 
apply and a certificate of completion is awarded to each participating candidate.
In the summer of 2012, twenty one students were selected through a screening process based 
mainly on their X class academic records. The selected students spent almost one month at 
IIT Jodhpur— from 2 to 30 June—participating in lectures, workshops, lab sessions, group 
works and field visits. At the end of the program, all these students participated in a poster 
presentation which displayed the learning they have received during their stay here at IIT 
Jodhpur.

Conferences and Workshops
International Workshop in Biologically-inspired System Science
1-3 March 2012
The new Center of Excellence Biologically-inspired Systems Science (BiSS) conducted this 
international workshop to get international feedback on the proposed academic programs of 
the center and to design an appropriate curriculum based on the response. The center sought 
to offer B. Tech. (4 year), M. Tech. (two year), and PhD courses in areas such as information 
processing in brain and its translation into real-world challenges, utilization of the knowledge 
of evolutionary adaptations for the improvement of already existing systems, and related 
areas. 
The following were the broad areas of discussion at the workshop:
 
Artificial Intelligence and Biologically-inspired Systems
 
Basic Sciences
 
Bio-devices and Diagnostics

 
Body-Brain-Mind and Society
 
Language understanding and Language evolution
 
Natural Computation
 
Neural Engineering
 
Neurobiology
 
Philosophical and theological perspectives of Biologically-inspired Systems
 
Psychology and Biologically Inspired Systems
 
Quantum Physics towards understanding of Biologically-inspired Systems
The participants included Prof. Theodore W. Berger, Prof. Christopher James Davia, Jean-
Pierre Jourdan, and Dr. Anirban Bandyopadhyay.
All participants appreciated the unique approach of the center to integrate different 
disciplines of engineering, science, and humanities. Based on the expert feedback the 
proposed curriculum was modified.

Workshop on Systems Science: Complex Networks and Applications
07-09 May 2012
IIT Jodhpur organized this workshop to explore recent trends in complex network and to 
make a bridge between academia and industry. The workshop provided a broad overview of 
the area with illustrative applications from various fields.
Major Topics of Discussion were the following:
 
Complex Networks: Theory and Applications
 
Random Graphs and Complex Networks
 
Topology and Dynamics of Complex Networks
 
Evolutionary Dynamics on Complex Networks
 
Information and Communication Networks
 
Social Networks, Biological Networks, etc
Delegates from Industries and R&D organizations and Researchers/Academicians from all 
over the India participated in the workshop. Through lectures, presentation of case studies 
and interactive sessions, participants were be exposed to the emerging field of complex 
networks.

Innovation and Incubation Center
Established in August 2011, the Innovation and Incubation Center, under the name I.D.E.A.S. 
(Innovators Destination for Entrepreneurship and Amelioration of Society), of IIT Jodhpur 
seeks to provide a continuous momentum towards promoting innovation in entrepreneurship. 
I.D.E.A.S. has entered into collaboration with the State Government of Rajasthan for the next 
ten years. 
 
The Innovation and Incubation Center of IIT Jodhpur seeks to provide continuous momentum 
toward promoting innovation in entrepreneurship. IIT Jodhpur seeks to be an academic 
incubator and provides support to students in developing business ideas that address the 
unattended issues prevalent in our society. It aims to provide young talented students with a 
platform where they can bring forward their ideas in the field of science and engineering and 
showcase the same to industry experts to get their assistance in developing a model. The 
center intends to nurture young minds and help their ideas gain ground through channelized 
guidance and mentorship by industry experts. We wish to give engineering students and 
industry practitioners an opportunity to interact and build a community of innovative 
potential.
Short-Term Courses
“Analog MOS Design using EDA Tools”
This 3-Credit Lab-oriented winter course for 2nd/3rd year EE students of IIT Jodhpur was 
floated by CEERI Scientists from 7 to 20 December 2011. The course deals with the analysis 
and design of analog MOS circuits and aims to expose the students to the Cadence Analog 
CAD Tools environment. Starting with an introduction to MOS transistor simulation models, 
through a detailed treatment including physical design of various amplifier configurations, 
current sources/mirrors and output stages; the course leads to the physical layout design of 
MOS Operational Amplifiers using Cadence EDA Tools. Participating experts included Dr. 
S. C. Bose, Dr. A. Karmakar, Mr. Anil K. Saini, Mr. G. Rajahari, Mr. M. Santosh and Mr. 
Kanu C. Behera.
Water, Sustainability and Sensor Networks
The winter course was open to Electrical Engineering and Computer Science students in their 
5th or 7th semester of B.Tech and students in the first semester of M.Tech in Information and 
Communication Technology. Course modules included Wireless Sensor Networks and NI 
platform and Water sustainability issues with Wireless sensor networks. Instructors were Dr. 
Venkata Ramana, Dr. Sandeep Yadav, Mr. Abhay Samant (NI), Mr. Bandan Jot (NI), and Dr. 
Tom Harmon and Mr. Michael from UC Merced. The course had accompanying field 
activities involving actively work with several types of soil and water sensors in a convenient

location outside of the classroom, learning the techniques for launching, installing the sensors 
as well as acquiring and interpreting the data.
Designing and Operating a Sustainable Campus
The objective of this winter course was to introduce the concept of sustainability to students 
so that they could integrate these principles in their designs and careers. This course 
introduced the class to the relevance of sustainability and to several campus sustainability 
models. These models were highlighted by three case studies. The students were asked to 
apply the models and case studies in planning the IIT Jodhpur sustainable campus. The 
students were then introduced to the principles of facility layout, buildings and systems, 
energy and utilities, and landscaping from a sustainability perspective. The students could 
utilize this material to design the IIT Jodhpur campus in terms of facility layout, facilities and 
systems, energy and utilities, and landscaping. Finally the students presented their IIT 
Jodhpur sustainable campus designs. The course instructors were Herb Debban (Associate 
Laboratory Director, Oak Ridge National Laboratory) and Anil Dewan (Professor, School of 
Planning and Architecture, IP Estate, New Delhi).
Cognitive Semantics
The objective of this summer course (2012) was to equip the students appreciate how 
linguistic capacity can be treated as arising out of overall cognitive capacity. This involves 
challenging many of the ingrained notions concerning meaning, reason, imagination, 
understanding etc. This can help students realize how the capacities that human beings are 
endowed with are continuous with the capacities found in the natural world. Such an 
understanding can help in developing a new orientation towards some fundamental issues 
concerning self, life and nature. The course addressed the problem of meaning, cognitive 
semantics versus truth conditional semantics, understanding categories, gestalt structure as a 
constraint on meaning, Metaphorical projection of image schemata, imagination and reason, 
the emergence of meaning through schematic structures, the role of the Unconscious in 
cognitive processing, and Embodied Realism. Course instructor was Dr. Hari Narayanan V.
English and Basic Language Skills
This twenty hour course was offered in the summer of 2012 by Dr. Ansu Louis. The course 
focused on the four language skills: speaking, listening, reading, and writing. The objectives 
of the course were to help students gain confidence in using English, develop ability to speak 
with greater confidence, fluency, and precision, increase active vocabulary, write clearly, 
concisely, and correctly in English, improve listening and comprehension skills, attain 
mastery over the basics of English pronunciation. To improve the basic language skills of the

society, and humanity. Beyond the constrained frame of the graduate curriculum, the institute
students, especially for improving their vocabulary and pronunciation, the language lab of the 
institute was made extensive use of during the course.
Bioethics
The summer course offered by Dr. K. J. George sought to unveil major ethical issues 
concerning life. To be precise, the course addressed itself to the ethical, social and political 
problems that arise out of recent advancements in the life sciences and technology. Four 
overlapping areas, namely, i) life-saving technologies at the beginning and end of life, ii) life-
enhancing technologies to improve the quality of life, iii) reproductive technologies, and iv) 
technologies that deal with genetic engineering, were ethically analyzed. In addition to the 
issues that are related to human life, due attention was given to the bioethical concerns over 
animal life and other forms of life that exist in the biosphere/ecosphere.
Weekly Academic Seminars
Scholarship for Students
IIT Jodhpur awards Merit-Cum-Means (MCM) scholarship to the undergraduate students 
belonging to General and OBC categories. The selection is based on both merit and parental 
income. Any student with a parental income of less than Rs. 4.5 lakhs per annum may be 
eligible for the scholarship. MCM scholarship involves full tuition fee waiver and an 
additional amount of Rs 1000/-per month. In the academic year 2011-2012 
 
Students belonging to SC/ST categories are given, in addition to tuition fee waiver, 
exemption from hostel dues (both mess and room charges) and a pocket allowance of Rs. 
250/-per month. In the academic year 2011-2012, 30 MCM scholarships were awarded in the 
GEN/OBC category, and 8 in the SC/ST category. And 24 free tuitionships were also 
awarded.

Foreign Language Training
With support from the French Embassy, IIT Jodhpur offers a zero credit compulsory course 
in French language for first year students. Furthermore, the state-of-the-art language lab of 
the institute could now help students in learning major foreign languages.
Internships of Students
Students do an eight-week summer training in reputed organizations, in India or abroad. In 
the previous academic year more than half of our students were placed for summer 
internships in several reputed companies. And some have been participating in research 
projects at universities in USA, Canada, Switzerland, Japan and Ireland. We had students 
participating in research projects in other IITs as well.
Name 
Institute / Organization 
Project Done
Tanmay Sethi 
The Energy & Resources 
Institute,
New Delhi
Solar Biomass Hybrid 
Cooling Cum Power 
Generation
Manu Agarwal 
IIT Delhi 
Clustering on data points 
satisfying (c,e) 
approximation stability
Inplant training

Fatigue testing of 
components and strain 
measurement during 
loading, Noise & vibration 
testing of engine and tractor
Abhinav Panwar 
Hindustan Aeronautics 
Limited, Bengaluru
Vasu Goenka 
Tata Motors 
Wheel Alignment
Power Generation Training

Facilities
Present Campus
Residential Area
Permanent Campus
Computer Center
Library
Laboratories
Health Center
Sports Facilities
SC/ST and OBC Cell
Hindi Cell
Office Automation

Present Campus
Presently, the institute functions from a temporary campus at Ratanada, in Jodhpur, 
Rajasthan. The campus has three blocks, Administrative Block, Academic Block-I, and 
Academic Block-II. In addition to the major administrative offices of the institute, a few 
laboratories are situated in the Administrative Block. In Academic Block-I are located several 
laboratories, computer center, and central library. Academic Block-II has several halls for 
lectures, tutorial rooms, language laboratory, and cabins for PhD students. The campus also 
has mess facilities for students. The institute has already procured all the basic facilities 
required for its effective functioning and is consistently in the course of further development.
Residential Area
The residential area of IIT Jodhpur is situated by the New Pali Road in the outskirts of 
Jodhpur city. The area is divided into several student hostels, residential apartments of the 
Director, faculty, and staff, VVIP guest house, visitors’ hostels etc. Round the clock security 
services keep the residential area safe and secure. A well-equipped health center also 
functions here. In addition, the students enjoy facilities for both indoor and outdoor games at 
this area.

The residential area has a computer center and all hostels are Wi-Fi enabled. And there is also 
a library, television rooms, and student activity center to hosts several events. Moreover, the 
residential complex also houses several students-run clubs which nurture the creativity of 
students and initiate the celebration of several festivals. Also, one of the two student messes 
of IIT Jodhpur function here (the other one in the academic area). The mess offers good 
quality food at very affordable rates. The messes are regularly monitored by wardens to 
ensure hygiene and nutritional value.
The residential campus has a fully equipped visitors’ hostel which provides boarding and 
lodging facilities for all the institute’s guests, parents and guardians of students, and newly 
appointed faculty members. All rooms are air conditioned. The residential area has a branch 
of State Bank of India with an ATM counter. The institute has a bus service running between 
the Residential and Academic areas at regular intervals, exclusively for the students, faculty, 
and staff of the institute. And shops catering to various needs of the students, two general 
stores, one medical store, stationery, and a mobile phone accessories store operate in front of 
the residential area.

Permanent Campus
In the forthcoming years, the institute will be shifted to its own residential campus near 
Nagaur in Jodhpur. The government has acquired 872 acres of land for the institute and the 
construction of the boundary wall is being completed, and so is the 33 KV electric substation. 
An MoU has been signed with Arid Forest Research Institute for designing and developing an 
urban forestry model for the institute. The institute has successfully completed the selection 
of the campus master planner. It is envisioned that the new campus of IIT Jodhpur would 
stand as a symbol of academic excellence while creating a multi-cultural ethos with centers 
such as an Eco Village, an Arts and Culture Centre and an International Inter-Cultural 
Activity Centre, all of which would contribute to a holistic development of its community.

Computer Center
The institute has a state-of-the-art computer center, presently running on a gigabit LAN with 
1Gbps internet bandwidth. It provides all computing facilities for students and staff. There 
are several terminals running on Windows and GNU/Linux operating systems. The computer 
center provides access to several licensed softwares like Matlab, Mathematica, Cadence, 
Mentor Graphic, Ansys, PSCAD, Solidworks etc. 802.11/b/g/n Wi-Fi is enabled in both the 
academic area and residential area, the computer centre hosts a high performance computing 
cluster for scientific research.
Computing Facilities
 Windows Lab - 36 Terminals 
 Linux Lab - 70 Terminals 
 Computer Centre for Residential Complex 
 6 TF, 520 Core High Performance Computing (HPC) Cluster from Fujitsu 
 Dell Power-Edge R810/R910 Servers – 6
Networking Facilities
 802.11 b/g/n Wireless and 1 Gbps wired LAN intranet and 1 Gbps Internet
connectivity at Residential Complex for all residents.
 802.11 b/g/n Wireless and 1 GBPS wired LAN at Institute’s Academic and Admin
Complex with 1 GBPS Internet bandwidth

Central Library 1175
Book Bank 594
 WPA-2 Enterprise Wireless Network.
Library
The library supports all teaching and research activities of the institute by facilitating- 
acquisition, organization, and dissemination of knowledge resources, and also providing 
library and information services to IIT Jodhpur community at large. It is located on the 
ground floor in room nos. 1001 and 1011, Academic Block I of the academic campus of 
IIT Jodhpur. The Library works under the guidance of the Institute’s Library Committee. 
The library operations are completely computerized. Online catalogues and recourses can 
be accessed in both academic and residential campuses.
Library Collection
Books: The library has a collection of more than 8000 volumes of books. These include the 
textbooks, reference & research materials and a book bank. E-books can be accessed through 
the library- website and catalogue.

Residential Area Library 250
Total no. of books added during 2011-12 2019
Journals & Databases: The library subscribes to a wide range of scholarly 
journals/databases from various sources.
The library also subscribes to some of the popular magazines and newspapers.
Digital Library Facility: The library extension in room no. 1011 serves as the digital 
library with computer terminals facilitating access to various academic resources, viz., 
journals, databases etc.
Book Bank Facility: The library has a special collection of textbooks for students 
belonging to SC/ST category, as per Government of India rules. They are issued to the 
students, who can apply as per the announced schedule by the Book Bank student 
volunteers.
E-Journal resources and scientific databases available in the campus include ACM 
Digital Library, American Chemical Society, American Institute of Physics, American 
Physical Society, Annual Reviews, ASME Digital Library, Elsevier’s Science Direct, IEL 
Online, IMechE, Institute of Physics, Nature, Nature Online Journals, Optical Society of 
America, Project MUSE, Royal Society of Chemistry, Science Online, Society for Industrial 
& Applied Mathematics, Springer Link, Taylor & Francis, Wiley Online Library, 
miscellaneous titles from Cambridge University Press, Begell House, Rinton Press, SAE, 
University of Manchester Press, Jstor, EBSCO Academic Search, Mathscinet, Scopus, 
Scifinder.

Laboratories
Right from its inception, IIT Jodhpur has been striving to achieve an ideal synthesis of 
teaching and research. This spirit reflects most clearly in the variety and scope of the 
laboratories the institute has established so far. Now the institute has a number of state-of-
the-art laboratories and research centers trying to elevate students from minimalist academic 
concerns to the inquisitive world of scientific arena. These labs and research centers help 
well-trained faculty members and students work for s better future by supplementing and 
improving existing technologies and bodies of knowledge, using competence, creativity, and 
imagination. To accomplish such goals, IIT Jodhpur has already made collaborations with 
several leading academic and research centers across the world.
Advanced Manufacturing Laboratory

CAD Laboratory
The CAD Lab of the institute provides facilities for undergraduate students and faculty 
members to work with 2-D & 3-D design and analysis software for their academic and 
research work. The 3-D Modeling Software and FE Analysis softwares available in the CAD 
lab include:
 
CATIA
 
SolidWorks
 
ANSYS
CAM Laboratory
In the CAM Lab undergraduate students learns to control machine tools and related 
machinery in the manufacturing of work pieces with help of computer programing and 
software. The CAD model of object is prepared in 3D modelling software and then its FE 
analysis is done with help of Analysis software and then manufactured using CNC 
programing and CNC machines. With help of CNC machines the object is manufactured with 
lesser time with higher dimensional accuracy with optimum uses of material, energy and cost. 
The CAM lab of the institute is equipped with following machines:
 
EMCO Concept Mill 250
 
EMCO Concept Mill 105
 
EMCO Concept Turn 105

In addition, a rapid prototyping machine based on the Fused Deposition Modelling was 
acquired for the CAD/CAM lab from Stratasys Inc., USA. It works seamlessly with STL files 
generated from a number of CAD software programs. First year students of all engineering 
branches have been taught to create STL files of the product designed such that 3D model in 
ABS material can be printed for purposes of visualization and design communication. It is 
proposed to conduct workshops and training programs for external industry participants using 
this technology in the next academic year.
Central Workshop
Central workshop is a facility where the students are trained to convert raw material into 
finished products. Here, the students learn about various manufacturing processes such as 
metal cutting, metal forming, metal casting, and metal joining. The central workshop is 
equipped with different types of welding machines which aid students in understanding the 
basic welding processes and in utilising the facilities for fabrication works for academic 
purposes.

The following are the machines and equipments available in central workshop:
1. Welding fume extraction down draft table 
2. Multi process welding equipment 
3. Portable single phase MIG/MAG 
4. AC/DC welding equipment 
5. MIG/MAG welding equipment 
6. Treadle operated shearing Machine 
7. Hand operated Folding Machine 
8. Kaizen Muffle Furnace 
9. Hand operated Jeeny or Burying Machine 
10. Motorized Circle cutting Machine 
11. Hand operated Circle cutting Machine 
12. Hydraulic shearing Machine 
13. Portable Heating Plant 
14. Portable hardening plant 
15. Forging Heating Plant 
16. Aluminium Melting Plant 
17. Fitting Table 
18. Mould Making Facility 
19. Portable Tool Grinder

Chemical Biology Laboratory
The laboratory deploys cellular and molecular biology approaches to explore the 
pathogenesis of cancer and other neurodegenerative diseases. Given the interest in neuronal 
death, it is no wonder that this lab team is interested in E3 ubiquitin ligases essential for 
quality control events in neuronal survival. Protein ubiquitylation is highly versatile, ordered, 
the multistep post translation modification enzymatic process that regulates numerous aspects 
of cell physiology. This lab team has been studying the role of such E3 ligases to find out the 
role of quality control E3 ubiquitin ligases in maintenance of proteostasis and hence playing a

The laboratory has collaboration with Riken Brain Science Institution, Japan; International 
Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, India; National Brain Research Centre, 
India; National Centre for Cell Sciences, India.
Research themes:
Organisms at the cellular level possess a well-established protein quality control mechanism 
which the lab team is trying to understand at present. The role of E3 ubiquitin ligases was 
reported in such mechanisms so far. Our laboratory is dedicated to a qualitative research in 
the field of protein quality control mechanisms. We have recently found that a HECT domain 
containing E3 ubiquitin ligase E6-AP helps in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis diseases 
suppression through its association with the misfolded protein aggregates formed by SOD1 
mutants. Such findings support that an E3 ligase can have a capability to clear the misfolded 
protein aggregation. However, while appreciating the incredible efficiency of cellular 
systems, we must recognize the crucial role of chaperones which are supposed to work 
preferentially compared to E3 ubiquitin ligases in order to refold the misfolded proteins, and 
hence conserving the energy utilized during the translation of those proteins. Various 
examples made us think that we could explore the role of both the chaperones and E3 
ubiquitin ligases in the clearance of misfolded proteins. Therefore, now we are working not 
only with E3 ubiquitin ligases but also with the chaperones and even in their functional 
association to confer an efficient quality control mechanism to the cell.
Chemistry Laboratory
The core objective of the chemistry laboratory of IIT Jodhpur is to train students in scientific 
methods that would solve real problems at the frontier of our understanding of the matter. 
This is a multi-use laboratory and provides a number of resources to assist undergraduate,

graduate and PhD students in planning their professional careers after completing their 
academic program at IIT Jodhpur.
This laboratory maintains a broad spectrum of state-of-the-art instrumentation including basic 
laboratory set up (for organic, inorganic, organometallic and material synthesis), Nitrogen, 
Oxygen and LPG gas line, Inert atmosphere boxes, vacuum line work, fume hood pH, 
conductivity, BOD, COD, meters, Rotary evaporator, Vacuum pumps, centrifuges, High 
pressure reactor system, chiller, heaters Microbalances, Orbital Shaker, GC, HPLC and 
Radleys ready reactor. In the academic year 2011-2012, the lab procured equipments such as 
Polarimeter, Melting Point Instrument, Solar Simulator, and Digital Titrator.
Control / DSP / Microprocessor Laboratory
The lab provides software and hardware infrastructure for carrying out experiments in the 
field of Control Systems, Microprocessor and DSP. Broadly, the lab includes the following 
experimental setups:
a. Control Systems
1. Ball & Beam System from Quanser 
2. Magnetic Levitation System from Quanser 
3. Inverted Pendulum System from Quanser 
4. Softwares include Scilab / Matlab
b. DSP Lab Equipments
c. Microprocessor Labs

Digital Language Laboratory
The Digital Language Laboratory provides resources, facility, and support for foreign 
language instruction and learning to the entire student community of IIT Jodhpur. The lab is 
the multilingual computing and assessment center of the institute. The lab team explores and 
implements methods through which multimedia technology renders learning a foreign 
language a more authentic experience. Here, for language learning purposes one could seek 
recourse to most advanced technologies including the Internet and interactive video, 
audiovisual techniques, multi-modal iconic approach, and speech recognition. Some other 
exercises include listening and comprehension, grammar-based exercises, placement

solutions, and mastery tests. The main features of this state-of-the-art facility include top-
rated Smart Class Symposium LL from Robotel and New Dynamic English Learning 
Program from Dyned International. All the facilities at the Digital Language Laboratory are 
proficiency-oriented and standard-based, and nurture the students’ enthusiasm for gaining 
global exposure and proficiency in a foreign language.
Electronic Circuit Laboratory
In this laboratory the students make and test their analog and digital circuits by using all 
kinds of circuit components like diode, transistor, opamps, and clocks. The lab has following 
equipments:
1. Arbitrary Function Generator from Agilent 
2. Digital Oscilloscope from Agilent 
3. Programmable Power Supply from Scientific 
4. 6 1/2 BIT DMM from Agilent
Electro Mechanical Energy Conversion Laboratory
In order to familiarize students to Electrical Machines properties & characteristics, IIT 
Jodhpur has established “Electro Mechanical Energy Conversion Laboratory” and has 
continually been developing the potential of its lab facility. In this lab, state-of-the-art 
“Electrical Engineering” facilitates the students to empower their potentials by familiarizing 
themselves with the fundamental of electro-mechanical energy conversion process, including

several practical & industrial applications of machines in true applicable environment. This 
lab occupies conventional as well as modern equipments to fulfil the basic and modern 
technological requirements with continual developing efforts.
Renewable Energy Laboratory
To resolve most daunting challenge of this world—energy needs—and also our nation’s 
heavy reliance on fossil fuels, Renewable Energy Laboratory (REL) promotes rigorous and 
objective empirical research at IIT Jodhpur on issues related to energy and environment. REL 
focuses on designing, testing, and disseminating renewable and efficient energy system. The 
mission of REL is to help these technologies to realize their full potential to contribute to 
environmentally sustainable development in industrial and developing countries. In the 
renewable energy field, expert faculty and students at this Laboratory are currently striving to 
create an innovative system to efficiently harness energy from sunlight and wind power. 
Recently, a work on solar and wind system for household development has been planned and 
our research effort at REL draws on ongoing work in variety of fields, including energy 
engineering, and environmental risk analysis. REL has computer interfaced systems and 
approximately 30 students can work at a time. Students are the greatest resource of REL and 
IIT Jodhpur has made substantial commitment to the area of renewable energy and been 
providing all required resources to execute a viable plan and innovative research at REL. One 
aspect of the evolution of REL is the development of collaborative partnership with other 
academic and industrial groups. In the near future, it will be a hub for training and public-
private sector collaboration. Recently, the lab has started a consultancy project, with 
Panasonic R & D India Pvt Ltd, on the prototyping of microbial fuel cells. In addition, the lab

has started work on data collection, interpretation, and analysis of PV power plants less than 
5 MW in Rajasthan and Gujarat.
Equipment
1. Wind power of 2KW Charge controller ~12V, Synchronous generator with permanent 
magnets ~12V, Lamp board ~12V, Off grid inverter etc 
 
2. PEM Fuel cell Fuel cell with DC converter, Electronic load, Metal hydride storage cell, 
Electrolyser, 200W/20V/10A. 
 
3. Advanced Photovoltaics Solar module simulation model 23V/2A, Solar module with solar 
altitude emulator, Solar charge controller 12/24V, 6A, Solar accumulator 12V, 7Ah, Off grid 
inverter 230V, 275VA etc. 
 
4. Combined RF/DC Sputtering Unit for Coatings Applications
Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer Laboratory
At Fluid Mechanics Laboratory students learn:
 
Analyses and evaluation of experimental data
 
Comparison between theoretical models and experimental data

 
How to design a fluid mechanical and heat transfer system e.g. a piping system 
considering various technical aspects, heat exchanger, thermal energy storage, 
receiver, wind catcher, volumetric air receiver.
In addition to the above, this laboratory aims at generating innovative ideas in students by 
promoting the design of experiments and small scale projects. At present in the fluid 
mechanics laboratory are conducted experiments on losses in pipes (smooth/rough) and 
fittings (e.g. valves, bends), comparison between different flow meters, particle image 
velocimetry technique, Hot-wire anemometer, labscale sub-sonic wind tunnel for- pressure 
distribution around a cylinder/air-foil, lift and drag balance, boundary layer development, 
weather monitoring. Furthermore the lab provides training on standard software, such as, 
CFAST for fire simulation.
Currently the Heat Transfer Laboratory is equipped with the demonstration of various 
thermometry techniques, heat exchange system, ventilation system, Natural and forced 
convection system, heat conduction unit for different materials, lab and industrial-scale solar 
water heater system, and thermal radiation unit. All these equipment are installed with 
respective software.
For testing, calibration and research purpose in these laboratories, various equipments, such 
as, Laser Doppler Velocimeter with Particle Analyzer, pressure and temperature calibration, 
blower with variable flow, pressure transducers, differential pressure transducers, turbine test 
rig, turbo-machine test rig, IC engine test rig etc. are being procured.
Moreover, multi-purpose test set up is being indigenously designed and the components / 
sub-systems involved are being fabricated locally. This system aims at investigation and 
evaluation of solar thermal sub-systems such as volumetric air receiver, thermal energy 
storage, air-water heat exchange systems and their simultaneous operation. Devices such as 
earth air heat exchange system, wind catcher, and air-cooled heat exchange systems are being 
fabricated and tested for certain applications.

Instrumentation and Communication Laboratory
The mission of Instrumentation and Communication Laboratory is to synthesize research and 
hands-on learning in Measurement and Automation Technology. The state-of-the-art facilities 
at this laboratory offer innovative research opportunities in the astronomical space of 
communication and real time measurement and real time measurement technology. The 
experienced Lab team nurtures students' talent in research and offers a platform for 
developing sophisticated measurement, test, and control systems, data analysis system, and 
next generation communication technologies.
Students also develop theoretical and practical competence in building baseband 
communication circuits, in the application of NI LabVIEW graphical programing software, 
in the PXI based NI RF/Wireless measurement stand, in evaluating NI WSNs and LabVIEW 
software, adjusting a software-defined radio system, measuring the parameters of studied 
antennas, and in the operation of analog modulation schemes.
NI-Lab contains software and hardware subsystems which enable rapid prototyping and 
development of embedded systems for various applications. Currently, this lab contains the 
following setups:

• 
NI ELVIS based Communication Systems and Theory Teaching Stand
• 
Large MIMO Stand for Spectral, Channel Efficiency Studies and New Standard
Development
• 
Protocols Stand for WLAN, WiMAX, GPS, RFID, Zigbee, GSM, CDMA, WCDMA,
Bluetooth
• 
FPGA-enabled Software Defined Radio Stand for Custom Communication Scheme
Development and Research
• 
Basic Analog and Digital Communication Techniques Teaching Stand
• 
Wireless Sensor Networks Stand
• 
Signal Intelligence and Wireless Spectral Monitoring Stand
• 
Wireless Prototype Characterization and Testing Stand
• 
FPGA based protocol development for base-band studies and signal processing
• 
VNA based Antenna Characterization Stand
• 
Fiber Optic Communication Stands
• 
Network Based Manufacturing
• 
Network Communication and Manufacturing Control Stand
After two years of its formation, this lab has contributed immensely to the learning and 
research activities at IIT Jodhpur. Cellular Communications Lab, Intelligent Instrumentation, 
System Analysis Techniques and Bio-Sensors courses are being offered through this lab for 
both graduate and undergraduate students. The lab has provided the right hardware and 
software tools for many industry consultancy projects, including the development of 
DRM/DRM+ IP for digital radio standards. Other projects being done in the lab are 
development of affordable wireless video transmission systems, cognitive radio, and Zigbee 
protocol development.
Material Testing and Solid Mechanics
The material testing lab of the institute provides facilities to test samples of different types of 
materials to find out their mechanical properties like modulus of elasticity, tensile and 
compressive strength, stress strain curve, bending properties, hardness etc. The lab is 
equipped with following test equipments:
1. Universal testing Machine 5-50 kN 
2. Rockwell Tester 
3. Brinell Tester 
4. Vickers Tester 
5. Poldi Hardness Tester

6. Portable hardness tester 
7. Material Testing and Solid Mechanics
Materials Analysis Laboratory
The laboratory is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities to carry out thermal analysis, 
electrochemical analysis, surface morphology studies, separation techniques for chemicals, 
electrical conductivity measurement devices, glove box etc.
The equipments available at the Materials Analysis Laboratory include:
(i) Differential Scanning Calorimeter: DSC 8000, Perkin Elmer Simultaneous thermal 
analyzer: STA 6000, Perkin Elmer
(ii) Waters HPLC
(iii) Gas Chromatography-Perkin Elmer

Microscopy Laboratory
The Microscopy Laboratory at IIT Jodhpur is located in Academic block 1, Room Number 
1107. This burgeoning laboratory is committed to procuring all specific Equipments and is 
about to gain the level of state-of-the-art laboratories at IIT Jodhpur. Experienced faculty 
nurtures students’ enthusiasm about the morphological analysis of biological samples and 
also assists them to operate scientific instruments. Currently, this laboratory houses different 
microscopes and a number of common pieces of sample preparation equipments.

Multimedia Laboratory
The Media Laboratory provides facilities to carry out work related to E-learning, image 
processing, and computer vision. The thrust areas of research in this lab are: Semantic

analysis of video/image content, video surveillance, human motion analysis, document image 
analysis, content based image retrieval etc. E-learning related activities include video 
recording, audio-video digitization, video editing, etc. In the academic year 2011-2012, a 
research on Indian sign language recognition using Kinect has been initiated.
Scanners: Book Drive Mini, UMAX Powerlook. Cameras: Sony 177PD, Sony Camcorder, 
Cannon 500D VCR: Sony DSR 45AP Tripods: Manfrotto, iMac.
Networking Technologies Laboratory
Networking Technologies Laboratory has been started functioning in the Academic Year 
2011-2012. It aims at enabling undergraduate and graduate students, who pursue their interest 
in the area of computer networks, to understand the concepts of computer networks and work 
with contemporary networking equipment in a realistic setting. In addition, the lab aims at 
providing necessary infrastructure to carry out research activities on advanced topics, such as 
wireless mesh networks, sensor networks, communication on power lines, from computer 
networks.
Proposed Activities:
 Prototyping of networking hardware (Example, Ethernet switch, IPV4 router etc)
using NetFPGA.
 Developing packet processors using Click router modular software framework. 
 Establishing infrastructure for the mini-Internet, single-hop wireless networks, multi-
hop wireless mesh and sensor networks, power line communication networks, home 
phone line networks.
 Studies related to the performance analysis of various protocols over on different
network configurations.
 Development of novel routing algorithms, transport layer mechanisms, and services
for next generation networks.
 Setting up planet-lab infrastructure (which will essentially become part of the global
distributed computing platform created over the Internet by connecting over 500+ 
sites). This allows the students and researchers not only to understand the traffic 
patterns on the Internet but also to develop new technologies/applications on the 
Internet for distributed storage, networking mapping, peer-to-peer systems, content 
distribution service, and cloud computing.

Physics Laboratory
The mission of the Physics laboratory at IIT Jodhpur is to provide students with experiential 
knowledge in basic physics. This laboratory has state-of-the-art facilities including specific 
equipments and is currently offering different experiments in Mechanics, Waves, Electricity, 
Magnetism, and Optics. Now the lab has facilities for experimenting with Speed of Light, 
Zeeman Effect, and Michelson Interferometer.
Power Electronics Laboratory
The power electronics laboratory is used for undergraduate studies and research in the area of 
power electronics based power conversion systems, control systems and drives. The 
laboratory facilitates for faculty and students to conduct research in the areas power 
converters and AC/DC micro-grid. The laboratory is equipped with state-of-art test and 
measurement instruments, converters, power supplies and programming boards. 
Major Equipments: 
1. High Precision power Analyzer –YOKOGAWA WT3000. 
2. DSO- Tektronix 200MHz (DPO 2024) and 1GHz (DPO 4104B). 
3. Function Generator-Tektronix AFG 3021B. 
4. Power Supply: 0-30V, 1A; 0-32V, 3A; 0-32, 10A.

5. Three phase inverter drive. 
6. Three phase inverter stacks. 
7. DC-DC converters. 
8. Differential currents Probes. 
9. Current clamps. 
10. Isolation Transformers. 
11. FPGA training kits and programming boards.
Robotics Laboratory
IIT Jodhpur has an advanced robotics laboratory for PG/UG education and research. The 
infrastructure includes the following: 
 
1. Vicon Motion Tracking System 
2. Mobile Manipulator comprising of Barret WAM ARM mounted on a 
 PowerBot Mobile robot platform 
3. Pioneer P3-DX mobile robots - 10 units 
4. Turtlebot 
5. Wheel Chair 
6. Force Plate 
7. Infrastructure for Mobile Robotics - Navigation, Path-planning, SLAM

8. Dynamic and Kinematic Control problem, Redundancy Resolution, Inverse Kinematics of 
Manipulators and Mobile Manipulators, Visual Servoing 
9. GAIT Analysis and Robot Assisted Rehabilitation
Solar Radiation Laboratory
The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) has selected the IIT Jodhpur campus 
site as one of their solar radiation centers. Solar radiation measurement (Global and Direct), 
Humidity, Ambient temperature, Rain gauge and wind speed measurement are carried out at 
this center and the data is transmitted via a satellite link to the MNRE nodal center C-WET in 
Chennai. The instruments in this laboratory are powered by a couple of solar panels. The data 
collected from this center enables the solar resource assessment required for the setting up of 
solar thermal and solar photovoltaic power plants as outlined in the Jawaharlal Nehru 
National Solar Mission (JNNSM).

Health Center
IIT Jodhpur provides health care facilities to students at the residential campus round the 
clock. The Health Center has now three doctors and four supporting staff members. The 
institute also has tie-ups with some hospitals in the city to cater to the medical needs of the 
students and staff. The Health Center at the residential area has all the necessary 
infrastructure, facilities, and equipment needed for basic health care. Essential medicines are 
stocked and provided to patients undergoing treatment.
Health Center coordinates and supervises the treatment of students, employees, and their 
dependents during hospitalization in other hospitals which are accredited to the institute to 
provide in-patient care. HC arranges for ambulance on call during medical emergencies.
HC extends its health care services on request to visitors of the institute during their stay in 
transit hostels in the residential area. Free medical consultancy services are also extended to 
the poor and needy serving in the residential area. Further, Patient records, details of 
medicine procurement/disbursement, assets, equipment of HC etc. are all computerized. The

institute is looking forward to procuring facilities for some common emergency health 
situations such as ECG machine, ambulance, etc.
Sports Facilities
The institute provides facilities for sports and games at four places: hostel premises, academic 
campus, Vidyashram playground, and JNVU new campus. Also, the institute has arranged 
conveyance for those students who wish to go to Vidyasham playground and JNVU new 
campus. Further, a gymnasium at the residential area functions for the students.
SC/ST and OBC Cell
IIT Jodhpur has created the SC/ST and OBC Cell for ensuring the proper utilization and 
adaptation of reservation policies and guidelines issued by the Government of India. The Cell 
has also been entrusted with work related to grievances received from SC/ST and OBC 
employees and students. The Cell also needs to communicate relevant information to the 
Ministry of Human Research and Development and to communicate to the Institute 
Government of India’s decisions related to admission, recruitment, promotion and training of 
SC/ST and OBC students and employees.
Hindi Cell
The Hindi Cell of IIT Jodhpur promotes the use of Hindi as a medium of official 
communications and public relations. The mission of the Cell is to enable the whole IIT 
Jodhpur community to develop basic language skills of Hindi. The Cell also encourages and 
assists students to conduct competitions and activities in Hindi language and literature.
Office Automation
The Office Automation Cell of the institute takes care of the IIT website, CoE websites, web 
pages of faculty members, and so on. The mission of the Office Automation division is to 
render all office procedures automated so their timely completion could be ensured and 
account keeping would become simpler and easier. The institute has already automated 
procedures for booking transit hostel; faculty, staff, and students leave; vehicle booking for 
official purposes; and bona fide certificate for students.

Faculty Activities
Sponsored Projects
Awards and Recognition
Invited Lectures
Publications
Conference Presentations
Faculty Members & Areas of Research Interest

Sponsored Projects
1. Principal Investigator: Dr Gaurav Harit. Project Title: Creation of Virtual Class-Rooms at
IITs over National Knowledge Network. Sponsoring Agency: National Informatics Centre. 
Sanctioned Amount: Rs 1,51,79,860/-. Duration: 1 year.
2. Principal Investigator: Dr. Sandeep Yadav. Project Title: Low Cost Access-cum-Computing
Devices. Sponsoring Agency: MHRD. Sanctioned Amount: Rs 47,72,00,000/-. Duration/Date 
of Completion: 19-Mar-12.
3. Principal Investigator: Prof. P K Kalra, Dr. K S Daya (DEI). Project Title: The Village
Community Network: Technology Development and Pilot Roll out Plan for Low Cost 
Opportunistic Communication Networks for Rural Areas of India. Sponsoring Agency: 
MHRD. Sanctioned Amount: Rs 6,00,00,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 31-Dec-12.
4. Principal Investigator: Prof. P K Kalra, Dr. S Bhatnagar (DEI). Project Title: E-Books on
Introduction to High Energy Physics, Introduction to Astroparticle Physics and 
Instrumentation Methods in Astroparticle Physics. Sponsoring Agency: MHRD. Sanctioned 
Amount: Rs 14,00,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 31-Dec-12.
5. Principal Investigator: Dr. Swagat Kumar. Project Title: Development of Low Cost Mobile
Robots - Robotics for Education. Sponsoring Agency: MHRD. Sanctioned Amount: Rs 
1,55,80,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 31-Dec-12.
6. Principal Investigator: Dr. Gaurav Harit. Project Title: Development of Analysis and
Indexing Tools for Harnessing Educational Videos. Sponsoring Agency: MHRD. Sanctioned 
Amount: Rs 32,45,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 31-Dec-12.
7. Principal Investigator: Dr. Sandeep Yadav. Project Title: NI-SENSOR & NETWORKS LAB.
Sponsoring Agency: NI Systems (I) Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore. Sanctioned Amount: Rs 5,00,000/-. 
Duration/Date of Completion: 1 year.
8. Principal Investigator: Dr. Sandeep Yadav. Project Title: Cross MAC & PHY Layer
Research. Sponsoring Agency: NI Systems (I) Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore. Sanctioned Amount: Rs 
5,00,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 6 months.
9. Principal Investigator: Dr. Hari Narayanan V. Project Title: Language, Cognition & the
Human Mind. Sponsoring Agency: Indian Council of Philosophical Research, MHRD. 
Sanctioned Amount: Rs 50,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 3 years.

10. Principal Investigator: Dr. Akhilesh Mohan. Project Title: Conceptualization and Design
Study for Freespace Material Characterization Facility. Sponsoring Agency: Defence 
Research & Development Organisation, Jodhpur. Sanctioned Amount: Rs 5,69,000/-. 
Duration/Date of Completion: 1 year.
11. Principal Investigator: Prof. P K Kalra. Project Title: One Stop Educational Portal.
Sponsoring Agency: Chhattisgarh Infotech & Biotech Promotion Society. Sanctioned 
Amount: Rs 40,85,934/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 2 years.
12. Principal Investigator: Dr. Amit Mishra. Project Title: Identification, assessment and
Characterization of E3 Ubiquitin Ligases and Molecular Chaperones Implicated in 
Neurogenerative Diseases. Sponsoring Agency: Department of Science & Technology. 
Sanctioned Amount: Rs 5,56,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 2 years.
13. Principal Investigator: Prof. Rajiv Shekhar. Project Title: Establishment of the Centre of
Excellence in Solar Thermal Research and Education. Sponsoring Agency: Ministry of New 
& Renewable Energy. Sanctioned Amount: Rs 40,00,00,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 
5 years.
14. Principal Investigator: Dr. Balram Tripathi. Project Title: Study of Aligned CNT/Polymer
Nanocomposites for Hydrogen Storage. Sponsoring Agency: Science and Engineering 
Research Board, DST. Amount Sanctioned: Rs 25,92,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 3 
years.
15. Principal Investigator: Dr. Sandeep Yadav. Project Title: Development of Intelligent
Instrumentation and Cellular Communication Courses. Sponsoring Agency: NI Systems (I) 
Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore. Amount Sanctioned: Rs 5,00,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 6 
months.
16. Principal Investigator: Dr. Sandeep Yadav. Project Title: Development of DRM/DRM+
Standards. Sponsoring Agency: NI Systems (I) Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore. Amount Sanctioned: Rs 
25,00,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 6 months.
17. Principal Investigator: Dr. Rakesh Sharma. Project Title: Generation, Storage and
Distribution of Solar Hydrogen. Sponsoring Agency: Department of Science & Technology. 
Amount Sanctioned: Rs 39,63,600/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 2 years.
18. Principal Investigator: Dr. Vivek Vijay. Project Title: Advancement in Nuclear Reactor
Design Pertaining to NRFCC. Sponsoring Agency: Department of Atomic Energy. Amount 
Sanctioned: Rs 4,30,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 1 year.

19. Principal Investigator: Dr. Sandeep Yadav. Project Title: Reproductive Child Health.
Sponsoring Agency: UNICEF, Jaipur Branch. Amount Sanctioned: Rs 20,86,500/-. 
Duration/Date of Completion: 2 years 3 months.
20. Principal Investigator: Dr. Rakesh Sharma. Project Title: Molecular Sensors: Synthesis and
Anion Recognition Studies. Sponsoring Agency: Science and Engineering Research Board, 
DST. Amount Sanctioned: Rs 27,69,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 3 years.
21. Principal Investigator: Prof. Rajiv Shekhar. Project Title: Concentrated Solar Power Plant.
Sponsoring Agency: Indian Oil Corpn. Ltd. Amount Sanctioned: Rs 60,00,000/-. 
Duration/Date of Completion: 3 years.
22. Principal Investigator: Dr. Deepak Fulwani. Project Title: Development of Programmable
Emulator for Photovoltaic Plant to Facilitate Complex Testing Requirements. Sponsoring 
Agency: Science and Engineering Research Board, DST. Amount Sanctioned: 9,48,000/-. 
Duration/Date of Completion: 3 years.
23. Principal Investigator: Dr. Sandeep Yadav. Project Title: Innovation and Incubation Centre.
Sponsoring Agency: Rajasthan State Government with IIT Rajasthan. Amount Sanctioned: 
Rs 2,50,00,000/. Duration/Date of Completion: 1 year.
24. Principal Investigator: Dr. Rakesh Sharma. Project Title: Asymmetric Hydrogenation on
Carbon Nanotube Surface. Sponsoring Agency: Department of Science & Technology. 
Amount Sanctioned: Rs 34,02,360/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 2 years.
Awards and Recognitions
Dr. Amit Mishra has been awarded DST-JSPS (IJCSP) fellowship, INT-India and Japan, for 
the period 2011-2013
Dr. Sonam Mehrotra has received the Galo Award sponsored by the Cancer Institute of New 
Jersey and The New Jersey Commission for Cancer Research for scientific excellence in 
Cancer Biology research 2011.
Invited Lectures
Vivek Vijay: Co-chair in Workshop on Vedic Studies and Information Technology at Dev 
Sanskriti University, Haridwar, India, August 23-24, 2011.
Shree Prakash Tiwari: Keynote Speech: "Introduction to Microelectronics & VLSI", 
in Short Term Training Program on "Advance Trends in VLSI", June 11 - 16, 2012, JIET 
Jodhpur, India.

Publications of Faculty Members in Academic Journals
1. A. Mohan, S. Singh, and A. Biswas,"Generalized Synthesis and Design of Symmetrical 
Multiple Passband Filters" Progress In Electromagnetics Research B, Vol. 42, 115-139, 
2012.
2. B. Ramachandran, A. Dixit, R. Nai, G. Lawes, M. S. Ramachandra Rao, Appl. Phys. Lett. 
100, 252902 (2012).
3. Amit Mishra; Megha Maheshwari; Deepak Chhangani; Noriko Fujimori Tonou; Fumito 
Endo; Ajay P Joshi; Nihar R Jana; Koji Yamanaka, “E6-AP association promotes SOD1 
aggresomes degradation and suppresses toxicity.” 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2012.08.016, (Neurobiology of Aging 2012).
4. Deepak Chhangani., Ajay Prakash Joshi., Amit Mishra (2012), “E3 Ubiquitin Ligases in 
Protein Control Mechanism.” Molecular Neurobiology 45 (3), 571-585.
5. Xiaohua Wei, Xiugui Wang , Bing Dong , Xinjian Li, Anand K. Plappally, Zhi Mao & 
Larry C. Brown, “Simplified residence time prediction models for constructed wetland water 
recycling systems,” Desalination and Water Treatment, DOI:10.1080/19443994.2012.708522
6. Vijay S. Chourasia, Anil Kumar Tiwari, Ranjan Gangopadhyay, “Time-frequency 
characterization of fetal phonocardiographic signals using wavelet scalogram”, Journal of 
Mechanics in Medicine and Biology, vol. 11, no. 2, pp. 391-406, 2011.
7. Vijay S. Chourasia, Anil Kumar Tiwari, "Fetal Heart Rate Variability Analysis from 
Phonocardiographic Recordings", Journal of Mechanics in Medicine and Biology, Vol. 11, 
No. 3, pp. 1-17, 2011.
8. Vijay S. Chourasia, Anil Kumar Tiwari, Ranjan Gangopadhyay, K. A. Akant, “Fetal 
phonocardiogarphic signal denoising based on non-negative matrix factorization”, Journal of 
Medical Engineering and Technology, vol. 36, no.1-2, pp. 57-66, Dec
9. Vijay S. Chourasia, Anil Kumar Tiwari, Ranjan Gangopadhyay, "Adaptive Neuro-Fuzzy 
Inference System for Antepartum Antenatal Care using Phonocardiography", Accepted for 
publication in International Journal of Biomedical Engineering & Technology, Inderscience 
Publications.
10. Vijay S. Chourasia, Anil Kumar Tiwari, “Wireless data acquisition system for fetal 
phonocardiographic signals using BluetoothTM,” International Journal of Computers in 
Healthcare, vol. 1, no. 3, pp. 240-253, 2012.

11. Vijay S. Chourasia, Anil Kumar Tiwari, Ranjan Gangopadhyay, “Spectral analysis of 
fetal heart sounds in healthy and pathological subjects”, Journal of Medical Engineering and 
Informatics, vol. 4, no. 2, pp. 125-139, 2012.
12. Vijay S. Chourasia, Anil Kumar Tiwari, “A phonocardiography based real-time fetal 
heart rate monitoring system”, In: Eddie Y. K. Ng, R. U. Acharya, T. Tamura, (Eds.), 
Distributed Diagnosis and Home Healthcare, American Scientific Publications, pp. 115-128, 
chapter 8, vol. 3, 2011.
13. Vijay S. Chourasia, Anil Kumar Tiwari, Ranjan Gangopadhyay, “Implementation of 
fetal e-health monitoring system through biotelemetry”, International Journal of Electronic 
Healthcare, vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 36-52, 2012.
14. Vijay S. Chourasia, Anil Kumar Tiwari, "Fetal Heart Rate Variability Analysis from 
Phonocardiographic Recordings", Journal of Mechanics in Medicine and Biology, Vol. 11, 
No. 3, pp. 1-17, 2011.
15. Vijay S. Chourasia, Anil Kumar Tiwari, Ranjan Gangopadhyay, "Adaptive Neuro-
Fuzzy Inference System for Antepartum Antenatal Care using Phonocardiography", Accepted 
for publication in International Journal of Biomedical Engineering & Technology, 
Inderscience Publications.
16. Vijay S. Chourasia, Anil Kumar Tiwari, "A Phonocardiography based Real-Time Fetal 
Heart Rate Monitoring System", Book Chapter in Eddie Y. K. Ng, R. U. Acharya, T. Tamura, 
(Eds.), Distributed Diagnosis and Home Healthcare, American Scientific Publications, vol. 
3, Article in press.
17. Ansu Louis. "Critiquing Narratives of Progress: Alternative History in Philip Roth's The 
Plot Against America." The IUP Journal of American Studies (February 2012).
18. Ansu Louis. "Transgression and Oedipal Politics in Philip Roth's Sabbath's Theater." 
The Explicator. [June, 2012].
19. Ashutosh Kumar Alok and Shireen Gangal, “Decays in a model with Z-mediated flavor 
changing neutral current.” e-Print: arXiv:1209.1987 [hep-ph].
20. Ashutosh Kumar Alok, Alakabha Datta, Amol Dighe, M. Duraisamy, D. Ghosh, David 
London, J. “New Physics in b -> s mu+ mu-: CP-Violating Observables,” High Energy Phys. 
1111 (2011) 122.
21. Ashutosh Kumar Alok, Amol Dighe, David London, “Constraints on the Four-
Generation Quark Mixing Matrix from a Fit to Flavor-Physics Data,” Phys. Rev. D 83 (2011) 
073008.
22. Ashutosh Kumar Alok, Seungwon Baek, David London, J. “Neutral Gauge Boson 
Contributions to the Dimuon Charge Asymmetry in B Decays,” High Energy Phys. 1107 
(2011) 111.

23. S. Mondal, Amit D. Lad, V. Narayanan, S. N. Ahmed, D. Carvalho, I. Chakraborty, P. 
Ayyub, Z. M. Sheng, and G. Ravindra Kumar, “Enhanced Hard X-Ray Emission from Cu 
Nanorods Moderate Intensity, Femtosecond Laser Produced Plasma”, Phys. Rev. B 83, 
035408, 2011.
24. M Krishnamurthy, S. Mondal, Amit Lad, Kartik, S. Ahmed, V. Narayanan, R. Rajeev, 
G. Chatterjee, Prashant Kumar Singh, G Ravindra Kumar, M Kundu,Krishanu Ray, “A 
bright, point source of ultrashort hard x-rays using bioplasmas.” Optics Express, 5754-5761 
(2012).
25. R. Rajeev, , K.P.M.Rishad, Madhu Trivikram, V.Narayanan and M.Krishnamurthy, “A 
Thomson parabola ion imaging spectrometer designed to probe relativistic intensity 
ionization dynamics of nanoclusters”, Rev. Sci. Intru. 82, 083303 (2011).
26 R.Rajeev, K.P.M.Rishad, Madhu Trivikram, V.Narayanan, T. Barbec and 
M.Krishnamurthy, “Decrypting the charge resolved kinectic energy spectrum in coulomb 
explosion of Argon clusters,” Phys. Rev. A 85, 023201 (2012).
27. Mainak Mazumdar. “On price discrimination, parallel trade and the availability of 
patented drugs in developing countries.” International Review of Law and Economics (An 
Elsevier Publication) 32 (2012), pp. 188-195.
28. Dr. Vivek Vijay. “Relationships Between Full and Layer Models With Applications to 
Level Merging.” Communications in Statistics- Theory and Methods. 40(2011), 745-761.
29. A. Kumar, S. Adhikari and P. Agrawal, “Generalized form of optimal teleportation 
witness operators,” arXiv:1204.0983.
30. Barun Pratiher and Santosha Kumar Dwivedy, “Nonlinear response of a vertically 
moving viscoelastic beam subjected to a fluctuation contact load,” Acta Mechanica, 218, 65, 
85 (2011).
31. Barun Pratiher and Santosha Kumar Dwivedy, “A study of nonlinear vibration of 
magnetoelastic cantilever beam with tip mass under Time varying axial load,” Mechanics 
Based Design of Structures and Machines, Journal of Taylor & Francis, Volume 39, Issue 3, 
2011.
32. B. Adhikari, R. Alam, “On backward errors of structured polynomial eigenproblems 
solved by structure preserving linearizations,” Linear Algebra & Appl.434 (2011), pp.1989-
2017.
33. B. Adhikari, R. Alam,D. Kressner, “Structured eigenvalue condition numbers and 
linearizations for matrix polynomials,” Linear Algebra & Appl. 435 (2011), pp. 2193 - 2221.

34. Deepak Fulwani, B.Bandyopadhyay and L. Fridman “Nonlinear sliding surface:
Towards high performance robust control” IET Control theory and Applications, Vol. 6, 
 No. 2, pp. 235-242, 2012. 
 
 35. Fulwani Deepak and B. Bandyopadhyay “Sliding Surface Design with Saturated
Actuator,” To appear in Lecture notes in Control and Information Science (LNCIS),
Springer. 
 
36. Gourishankar Hiremath and B. Kamaiah (2012) “Variance ratios, Structural breaks and 
a Nonrandom walk Behaviour of Indian Stock Returns.” Accepted for publication in Journal 
of Business and Economic Studies (Fall 2012 Issue).
37. Belal Usmani, Narendra Kumar, Vatsanagupta, S. Harinipriya, “Solar selective coatings 
with enhanced thermal and corrosion stability: Electrochemically deposited black chrome on 
stainless steel in the presence of graphite encapsulated FeCo Nanoparticles”, Advanced 
Materials Research, Accepted.
48. S. Harinipriya, Sreejith V, “Polyaniline and Multiwalled Carbon nanotube composites 
on PC, PC/ABS and Nylon matrix for EMI sheilding applications”, Nanotechnology and 
Nanoscience, issue 1, 31 - 37, 2011.
39. S. Harinipriya , Sreejith V, “Electrically conducting Nylon6 6/ Polyaniline composite 
short fibers by solvent coagulation method”, Synthetic metals, accepted, in press.
40. F. Roelofs, V.R. Gopala, L. Chandra, M. Viellieber, A. Class, “ Simulating fuel 
assemblies with low resolution CFD approaches”, Invited as a selected paper from NURETH 
14 for publication, Nuclear Engineering and Design (In press).
41. Laltu Chandra, Ferry Roelofs, “CFD analyses of liquid metal flow in sub-channels for 
Gen IV eactor”, an extended version is accepted for publication in the NURETH-13 special 
issue of Nuclear Engineering and Design, 241 (11), pp. 4391-4403, 2011.
42. L. Audouin, L. Chandra, J-L Consalvi, L. Gay, E. Gorza, V. Hohm, S. Hostikka, T. Ito, 
W. Klein-Hessling, C. Lallemand, T. Magnusson, N. Noterman, J.S. Park, J. Peco, L. 
Rigollet, S. Suard, P. Van-Hees, “Quantifying differences between computational results and 
measurements in the case of a large-scale well-conﬁned ﬁre scenario”, Nuclear Engineering 
and Design, 241 (1), pp. 18-31, 2011.
43. P. R. Sharma, A. Sharma, M. D. Shrimali, and A. Prasad, “Targeting fixed-point 
solutions in nonlinear oscillator through linear augmentation”, Physical Review E, 83, 067201 
(2011).
44. A. Sharma, M. D. Shrimali, A. Prasad, R. Ramaswamy, and U. Feudel, “Phase-flip 
transition in relay-coupled nonlinear oscillators,” Physical Review E, 84, 016226 (2011).

45. P. R. Sharma and M. D. Shrimali, “Computing with coupled chaotic neuronal maps,” 
International Journal of Unconventional Computing, 7, 115 (2011).
46. A. Sharma and M. D. Shrimali, Pramana, “Synchronization of indirectly coupled Lorenz 
oscillators: An experimental study,” Journal of Physics, 77, 881 (2011).
47. A. Sharma and M. D. Shrimali, “Experimental realization of mixed--synchronization in 
counter--rotating coupled oscillators”, Nonlinear Dyn, 69, 371 (2012).
58. A. Sharma, P. R. Sharma, and M. D. Shrimali, “Amplitude-death in nonlinear oscillators 
with indirect coupling”, Physics Letters A, 376, 1562 (2012).
49. A. Sharma and M. D. Shrimali, “Amplitude death with mean field diffusion”, Physical 
Review E, 85, 057204 (2012).
50. A. Sharma, M. D. Shrimali, and S. K. Dana, “Phase-flip transition in nonlinear 
oscillators coupled by dynamic environment”, Chaos: An Interdisciplinary Journal of 
Nonlinear Science, 22, 023147 (2012).
51. N. Ganguly, Satyabrata Adhikari, A. S. Majumdar, "Common entanglement witnesses 
and their characteristic'', Accepted in Quantum Information Processing.
52. Satyabrata Adhikari, I. Chakrabarty, P. Agrawal , "Probabilistic secret sharing sharing 
through noisy quantum channels", Quantum Information and Computation 12, 0253 (2012).
53. Satyabrata Adhikari, A.S. Majumdar, D. Home, A. K. Pan, P. Joshi, "Quantum 
teleportation using non-orthogonal entangled channels", Physica Scripta 85, 045001 (2012).
54. Xuan Zhang, Jae Won Shim, Shree Prakash Tiwari, et al. “Dithienopyrrole-
quinoxaline/pyridopyrazine donor-acceptor polymers: synthesis and electrochemical, optical, 
charge-transport, and photovoltaic properties,” Journal of Materials Chemistry, Vol. 21, 
Pages 4971-4982, 2011.
55. Jianguo Mei, Kenneth R. Graham, Romain Stalder, Shree Prakash Tiwari, et al. “Self-
Assembled Amphiphilic Diketopyrrolopyrrole-Based Oligothiophenes for Field-Effect 
Transistors and Solar Cells,” Chemistry of Materials, Vol. 23, Pages 2285-2288, 2011.
56. J.B. Kim, C. Fuentes-Hernandez, D.K. Hwang, S.P. Tiwari, W.J. Potscavage Jr. and B. 
Kippelen, “Vertically stacked complementary inverters with solution-processed organic 
semiconductors,” Organic Electronics, Organic Electronics, Vol. 12, Pages 1132-1136, 
2011.
57. Lauren E. Polander, Shree P. Tiwari, Laxman Pandey, Brian M. Seifried, Stephen 
Barlow, Chad Risko, Jean-Luc Brédas, Bernard Kippelen, and Seth R. Marder, “Solution-
Processed Molecular Bis(Naphthalene Diimide) Derivatives with High Electron Mobility,” 
Chemistry of Materials, Vol. 23, Pages 3408-3410, 2011.

58. Lauren E. Polander, Laxman Pandey, Stephen Barlow, Shree Prakash Tiwari, Chad 
Risko, Bernard Kippelen, Jean-Luc Bredas, and Seth R. Marder, “Benzothiadiazole-
Dithienopyrrole Donor-Acceptor-Donor and Acceptor-Donor-Acceptor Triads: Synthesis and 
Optical, Electrochemical, and Charge-Transport Properties,” The Journal of Physical 
Chemistry C, Vol. 115, Pages 23149-23163, 2011.
59. Tissa Sajoto, Shree Prakash Tiwari, Huifang Li, Chad Risko, Stephen Barlow, Qing 
Zhang, Jian-Yang Cho, Jean-Luc Brédas, Bernard Kippelen, and Seth R. Marder, “Synthesis 
and characterization of naphthalene diimide/diethynylbenzene copolymers,” Polymer, 
Accepted, 2012.
60. Shree Prakash Tiwari, Keith A. Knauer, Amir Dindar, and Bernard Kippelen, 
“Performance comparison of pentacene organic field-effect transistors with SiO2 modified 
with octyltrichlorosilane or octadecyltrichlorosilane,” Organic Electronics, Vol. 13, Pages 
18-22, 2012.
61. Shree Prakash Tiwari, Jungbae Kim, Keith A Knauer, Do Kyung Hwang, Lauren E 
Polander, Stephen Barlow, Seth R Marder, and Bernard Kippelen, “Complementary-Like 
Inverters Based on an Ambipolar Solution-Processed Molecular Bis(Naphthalene Diimide)-
Dithienopyrrole Derivative,” Organic Electronics, Vol. 13, Pages 1166-1170, 2012.
62. Chun Huang, William J. Potscavage, Shree P. Tiwari, Sinan Sutcu, Stephen Barlow, 
Bernard Kippelen and Seth R. Marder, “Polynorbornenes with pendant perylene diimides for 
organic electronic applications,” Polymer Chemistry, Vol. 3, Pages 2996-3006, 2012.
63. S. Banerjee and R. Parthasarathy, “A Q-deformed logistic map and its implications,” J. 
Phys. A.:Math. Theor. 44, 045104 (2011). 
 
64. I. Chakrabarty, S. Banerjee and N. Siddharth, “A Study of Quantum Coorelations in 
Open Quantum Systems,” Quantum Information and Computation 11, 0541 (2011). 
 
65. C. M. Chandrashekar, S. K. Goyal and S. Banerjee, “Entanglement generation in 
spatially separated systems using quantum walk,”Journal of Quantum Information Science: 2, 
15 (2012). 
 
66. C. M. Chandrashekar and S. Banerjee, “Parrendo’s game using a discrete-time quantum 
walk,” Phys. Lett. A 375, 1553 (2011).
67. B. R. Rao, R. Srikanth, C. M. Chandrashekar and S. Banerjee, “Quantumness of noisy 
quantum walks: a comparison between measurement-induced disturbance and quantum 
discord,” Phys. Rev. A 83, 064302 (2011).
68. S. Goyal, S. Banerjee and S. Ghosh, “Effect of control procedures on the evolution of 
entanglement in open quantum systems,” Phys. Rev. A: 85, 012327 (2012).
69. S. N. Sandhya and S. Banerjee. “Geometric Phase: a Diognostic Tool for Entanglement,” 
Euro. Phys. J. D: 66, 168 (2012).

Publications of Faculty in 2011-12 before Joining the Institute
1. Plappally A. K., I. Yakub, L C Brown, W O Soboyejo and A B O Soboyejo , “Physical
Properties of Porous Clay Ceramic-Ware,” Journal of Engineering Materials and 
Technology, ASME, 113 (3):311004-1-311004-9. 2011.
2. Plappally, A. K., Chen, H., Ayinde, W., Alayande, S., Usoro, A. Friedman, K C. Dare, E.,
Ogunyale, T., Yakub, I., Leftwich, M., Malatesta, K., Rivera, R., Brown, L., Soboyejo, A., 
Soboyejo, W (2011). “A Field Study on the Use of Clay Ceramic Water Filters and 
Influences on the General Health in Nigeria.” Journal of Health Behavior and Public Health, 
1(1): 1-14. http://www.asciencejournal.net/asj/index.php/HBPH/article/view/109.
3. Wei X., Plappally A. K., Brown L.C., Soboyejo A.B.O., Dong B., Mao Z., 2011, “Numerical
and Multivariate Stochastic Approaches to Characterize Guilin Wetland Dynamics,” 
Stochastic Environmental Research & Risk Assessment, 24(7), DOI:10.1007/s00477-011-
0520-6.
4. Vanarase AU, Gao Y, Dubey A, “Ierapetritou MG, Muzzio FJ. Scale Up Of Continuous
Blending”. Chapter 9.2, pages 227-240. In Pharmaceutical Process Scale Up, Third Ed., 
ISBN: 9781616310011, 2011.
5. Sharma G, Dubey A, Mavroidis C. “Protein based nanoscale actuation. In Nanorobotics:
Current Approaches and Techniques,” Springer, 2011.ISBN 978-1-4614-2118-4.
6. Plappally A. K., LienhardV. J. H. “Energyrequirements for water
production,treatment,enduse,reclamation, and disposal.” Renewable and Sustainable Energy 
Reviews16 (2012), 4818-4848,http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2012.05.022.
7. Ansu Louis, "The Politics of Desire in Thomas Pynchon's V." Notes on Contemporary
8. K. R. Hiremath, L. Zschiedrich, and Frank Schmidt, “Numerical solution of nonlocal
hydrodynamic Drude model for arbitrary shaped nano-plasmonic structures using Nédélec 
finite elements,” Journal of Computational Physics, 231 (17), 5890-5896, 2012.
9. K. R. Hiremath, J. Niegemann, and K. Busch, “Analysis of light propagation in slotted
resonator based systems via coupled-mode theory,” Optics Express, 19(9), 8641-8655, 2011.
10. Mainak Mazumdar. “Sources of Heterogeneity in the Efficiency of Indian Pharmaceutical
Firms.” Centre de Sciences Humaines (CSH) Occasional Paper no 27 (2011) (A publication 
of the French Research Institutes in India), with Dr Meenakshi Rajeev and Subhash C Ray 
http://www.csh-delhi.com/ops.php?idop=27.

11. Dubey A, Muzzio FJ, et al. “Analysis of Pharmaceutical Tablet Coating Uniformity by Laser
Induced Breakdown Spectroscopy” (LIBS). Journal of Pharmaceutical Innovation, 6(2) 77-
87. DOI: 10.1007/s12247-011-9103-9, 2011.
12. Dubey A, Muzzio FJ, et al. “Effect of speed, loading and spray pattern on coating variability
in a pan coater.” Chemical Engineering Science, 66(21): 5107-5115, 2011.
13. Dubey A, Muzzio FJ, et al. “Computational Approaches for Studying the Granular Dynamics
of Continuous Blending Processes,” DEM Based Methods. Macromolecular Materials and 
Engineering, 296(3-4): 290-307, 2011.
14. Boukouvala F, Dubey A, et al. “Computational approaches for studying the granular
dynamics of continuous blending processes,” Data Driven Methods. Macromolecular 
Materials and Engineering, 297(1):9-19. DOI: 10.1002/mame.201100054, 2012.
15. Romanski FS, Dubey A, Chester AW, Tomassone MS. “Dry Catalyst Impregnation in a
Double Cone Blender: A Computational and Experimental Analysis.” Powder Technology, 
221:57-69, 2012.
16. Dubey A, Boukouvala F, Muzzio FJ, et al. “Improvement of tablet coating uniformity using a
quality by design approach.” AAPS PharmSciTech. 13(1):231-246. DOI: 10.1208/s12249-
011-9723-x, 2012.
17. Dubey A, Vanarase AU, Muzzio FJ. “Effect of process parameters on the performance of a
continuous blender : A DEM based study.” AIChE Journal. DOI: 10.1002/aic.13770, 2012.
18. Anima Nagar and Puneet Sharma, COMBINED DYNAMICS ON HYPERSPACES, Top.
19. Shanmuganathan Raman and Subhasis Chaudhuri, "Reconstruction of High Contrast
Images for Dynamic Scenes", The Visual Computer, Pages 1099-1114, Volume 27, Number 
12, 2011.
20. N. Ganguly, Satyabrata Adhikari, A. S. Majumdar, J. Chatterjee, "Entanglement witness
operator for quantum teleportation", Physical Review Letters 107, 270501 (2011).
21. Lu H., Huang Y., Mehrotra S., Droz-Rosario R., Liu J., Bhaumik M., White E. and Shen Z.,
“Essential Roles of BCCIP in mouse embryonic development and structural stability of 
chromosomes,” PloS Genetics 2011, Sep7 (9):e1002291.
22. Haitao Wen, Denis Gris, Yu Lei, Sushmita Jha, Lu Zhang, Max Tze-Han Huang, Willie
June Brickey, Jenny P.-Y. Ting. “Fatty acid-induced NLRP3-ASC inflammasome activation 
interferes with insulin signaling.” Nature Immunology, 10 Apr 2011(Epub).

23. Eda K. Holl, Brian P. O'Conner, T. Matt Holl, Kelly E. Roney, Albert Zimmermann,
Sushmita Jha, Garnett Kelsoe, Jenny P.-Y. Ting. “Plexin-D1 regulates humoral immune 
memory via control of B-cell entry into germinal centers,” The Journal of Immunology, 4 Apr 
2011 (Epub).
24. Vidya Sarveswaran. Commentary on "Homework" in the Restoration Earth. An
Interdisciplinary Journal for the Study of Nature and Civilization published online from The 
Ocean Seminary Institute New Jersey. Vol.1.1 November 2011.pg. 42-43.
Conference Presentations and Publications
1. Ravi Patni, Mohit Joshi, Sameer Mehra, and A. Mohan. "Design of Piezoelectric 
Aluminum Nitride MEMS Resonator." Proceedings of the World Congress on Engineering 
and Computer Science 2011, pp. 166-171.
2. A K Plappally & J H Lienhard, “Costs for Water Supply, Treatment, and Reclamation,” 
EDS 2012 Barcelona, Conference and Exhibition on Desalination For The Environment 
Clean Water and Energy Technical Program: Socio-economic and environmental issues.
3. Xiaohua Wei, Xiugui Wang, Bing Dong, Xinjian Li, Anand K. Plappally, Zhi Mao, Larry 
C. Brown, “Simplified Residence Time Prediction Models for Constructed Wetland Water 
Recycling Systems,” EDS 2012 Barcelona, Conference and Exhibition on Desalination For 
The Environment Clean Water and Energy.
4. Sunil Jaiswal and Anil Kumar Tiwari, Coefficient Interpolation Approach for 
Enhancement of Spatial Resolution of Images,” Proceedings of the 11th biennial Asia Pacific 
Conference on Circuits.
5. Sunil Prasad Jaiswal, Vinit Jakhetiya, and Anil Kumar Tiwari, “An Efficient Image 
Interpolation Algorithm Based Upon the Switching and Self Learned Characteristics for 
Natural Images”, 44th IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and Systems (ISCAS) pp. 
861 - 864, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 2011.
6. Vinit Jakhetiya, Sunil Prasad Jaiswal, and Anil Kumar Tiwari, “A Computationally 
Efficient Context Based Switched Image Interpolation Algorithm for Natural Image”, 28th 
IEEE International Instrumentation and Measurement Technology Conference, 2011.
7. Ashwani Sharma, Anil Kumar Tiwari, “Lossless Video Coding using Grid- Gradient 
Classification”, IEEE International Conference on Image Processing Brussels, Belgium, 
September 11 - 14, 2011.

8. Sunil Prasad Jaiswal, Anil Kumar Tiwari, AU, “Interpolation Based Symmetrical 
Predictor Structure For Lossless Image Coding”, 45th IEEE International Symposium on 
Circuits and Systems (ISCAS) 2012.
9. Vinit Jakhetiya, Sunil Prasad Jaiswal, Ashutosh Singla, Anil Kumar Tiwari, “Image 
Square Optimization,” Prediction Algorithm 28th IEEE using International, Slope 
Instrumentation Measurement Technology Conference, Graz, Austria.
10. Ashutosh Singla, Jaya Shukla, Anil Kumar Tiwari, Sunil Prasad Jaiswal, Vinit 
Jakhetiya, “Adaptive Predictor Structures for Lossless Compression of Videos”, 22nd IEEE 
Data Compression Conference, 2012, Snowbird, UT, USA.
11. Vinit Jakhetiya, Sunil Prasad Jaiswal, Ayush Kumar, Anil Kumar Tiwari, “A Low 
Complex Context Based Image Interpolation Algorithm For Natural Images” 29th IEEE 
International Instrumentation and Measurement Technology Conference, 2012.
12. Jaiswal, Gaurav Mittal, Vinit Jakhetiya, Anil Kumar Tiwari, “An Efficient Two Pass 
Lossless Invisible Watermaking Algorithm for Natural Images”, IEEE 19th International 
Conference on Systems, Signals and Image Processing, 2012, Vienna, Austria.
13. Dubey A, Boukouvala F, Muzzio FJ et al. “A QbD Approach to Improve Tablet Coating 
Uniformity.” The 2011 AIChE Annual Meeting, Oct. 16-21, Minneapolis MN, USA.
14. Varghese A, Dubey A, Ramachandran R. “Efficient Simulation of Population Balance 
Models via Parallel and Distributed Computing.” The 2011 AIChE Annual Meeting, Oct. 16-
21, Minneapolis MN, USA.
15. Romanski F, Dubey A, Shen Y, Chester AW, Tomassone MS. “Simulations and 
Experiments of Dry Catalyst Impregnation for Improved Content Uniformity.” The 2011 
AIChE Annual Meeting, Oct. 16-21, Minneapolis MN, USA.
16. Hari Narayan V. "Dialogue And Disciplines" in National Conference on " Engaging 
Science:Dialogue across Disciplines" held at IISER Mohali from March 31st to April 1 2012.
17. Hari Narayan V. "Reporting Experience: The Role of the Self" in Cognition, Experience 
and Creativity” (Proceedings of a Conference held at IIT Gandhinagar), To be published by 
Orient Blackswan.
18. S. Harinipriya(a)*, B. Usmani(a), D. J. Rogers(b) , V. E. Sandana(b,c,d), F. Hosseini 
Teherani(b), A. Lusson(c), P. Bove(b), H.-J. Drouhin(d) and M. Razeghi(e), “ZnO Nanorod 
Electrodes for Hydrogen Evolution & Storage,” Proc. of SPIE Vol. 8263, 82631Y · © 2012
19. A. Agarwal, R. V. Maitri, P. Garg, L. Chandra, “ Design and Analyses of Earth-air Heat 
Exchange Systems for Space Cooling“, Proc. IEEE-ICSET, 2012.

20. R. Jain, A. Anand, G. Jain, L. Chandra, “Analyses and Design of an Air Cooled Heat 
Exchanger,” Proc. IEEE-SCES, 2012.
21. L. Chandra, P. Garg, R. V. Maitri, A. Agarwal, K. Shweta, “A Stepwise Modeling 
Approach for Designing an Earth-Air Heat Exchanger in Jodhpur Region of 
Rajasthan“, Proc. ICDRET 2012.
22. F. Roelofs, V. Gopala, D. Visser, A. Shams, J.A. Lycklama à Nijeholt, L. 
Chandra, “Developments In Single Phase Fuel Assembly Simulations,” Proc. NURETH 14, 
Canada, 2011.
23. F. Roelofs, V.R. Gopala, L. Chandra, M. Viellieber, A. Class, “Fuel Assembly 
Simulations Using LRGR-CFD and CGCFD,” Proc. NURETH14, Canada, 2011.
24. Manish Srimali, “Phase-flip transition in the absence of time delays in coupled 
oscillators,” 31st Dynamics Days Europe, Oldenburg, Germany, 12-16 Sept 2011.
25. Jungbae Kim, Canek Fuentes-Hernandez, Do Kyung Hwang, William J. Potscavage, Jr., 
Hyeunseok Cheun, Shree P. Tiwari, and Bernard Kippelen, “Top-gate pentacene and 
amorphous InGaZnO channel thin-film transistors and inverters with high-operational 
stability,” SPIE Optics + Photonics: Photonic Devices + Applications (Organic Field-Effect 
Transistors X), August 21 -25, 2011, San Diego, California, USA.
26. J. B. Kim, C. Fuentes-Hernandez, D. K. Hwang, S. P. Tiwari, W. J. Potscavage Jr., and 
B. Kippelen, “Vertically stacked complementary inverters with solution-processed organic 
semiconductors,” SPIE Optics + Photonics: Photonic Devices + Applications (Organic Field-
Effect Transistors X), August 21 -25, 2011, San Diego, California, USA.
27. Sushmita Jha, Siddharth Y. Srivastava, W. June Brickey, Heather Iocca, Arrel Toews, 
James P. Morrison, Vivian S. Chen, Denis Gris, Glenn K. Matsushima, and Jenny P.-Y. Ting, 
“The inflammasome sensor, NLRP3, regulates CNS inflammation and demyelination via 
caspase-1 and IL-18,” selected for a poster presentation at the Young Investigator Meeting 
(YIM) Boston, MIT Stata Center, Oct 8th 2011. 
 
28. S. Harinipriya, B. Usmani(a), D. J. Rogers(b) , V. E. Sandana(b,c,d), F. Hosseini 
Teherani(b), A. Lusson(c), P. Bove(b), H.-J. Drouhin(d) and M. Razeghi(e), ZnO Nanorod 
Electrodes for Hydrogen Evolution & Storage, Proc. of SPIE Vol. 8263, pp82631Y-
10· 2012.
29. Bernard Kippelen, Jungbae Kim, Do Kyung Hwang, Shree P. Tiwari, William J. 
Potscavage, Jr., Canek Fuentes-Hernandez, “Organic and hybrid thin-film transistors with 
novel architectures and high stability,” SPIE Optics + Photonics: Photonic Devices + 
Applications (Organic Field-Effect Transistors X), August 21 -25, 2011, San Diego, 
California, USA.

Prem K. Kalra Professor
&
Director University of
Manitoba, Canada Electrical Engineering: Power Systems,
Expert Systems, HVDC Transmission,
Deregulated Power System,
Educational Paradigms, Data Mining,
Fuzzy Logic System, Neural Networks,
Computational Neuroscience Image
Processing Independent Component
Analysis & Blind Source Separation,
KARMAA (Knowledge Acquisition,
Retention, Management, Assimilation
& Application)
Akhilesh Mohan Assistant
Professor IIT Kanpur Electrical Engineering: RF and
Microwave Communication,
Microwave Filters Metamaterials, RF-
MEMS for filter applications
Ambesh Dixit Assistant
Professor Wayne State
University Physics: Semiconductors,
Amit Mishra Assistant
Professor National Brain
Research Centre Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience,
Cell Cycle Regulation and Cancer Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience,
Anand Krishnan
Plappally Assistant
Professor Ohio State University Mechanical Engineering: Energy Water
Anil Kumar
Tiwari Assistant
Professor IIT Kharagpur Electrical Engineering: Image
Faculty Members and Specializations (as on 31 July 2012)

Ansu Louis Assistant
Professor IIT Kanpur English: American Literature, Literary
Arnab Datta Assistant
Professor IIT Bombay Electrical Engineering:Electrical
characterization, T-CAD, and Monte-
Carlo modeling of semiconductor
devices, Advanced MOSFET
characterization issues, Numerical
modeling for MEMS reliability
projection, Integrated optical devices
modeling, Fabrication of MOS devices Electrical Engineering:Electrical
Ashutosh Kumar
Alok Assistant
Professor IIT Bombay Physics: Particle Physics and
Cosmology
Atul Dubey Assistant
Professor Rutgers University,
USA Mechanical Engineering: Granular
Atul Kumar Visiting IIT Madras Chemistry: Quantum Information
Processing Chemistry: Quantum Information
Assistant Processing
Ravindra Associate IIT Kanpur Mechanical Engineering: Mechanics,
Brammajyosula Professor Mechatronics and Solar energy
Barun Pratiher Barun Pratiher Assistant
Professor Assistant IIT Guwahati Mechanical Engineering: Dynamic
Model & Simulation, Nonlinear
Dynamics,Stability
Analysis,Perturbation
Techniques,Flexible Robots, Fluid-
Structures Interaction in Flexible Pipes
or carbon nanotube, Modeling and
Dynamics Response MEMS Devices Mechanical Engineering: Dynamic
Professor Model & Simulation, Nonlinear
Bibhas Adhikari Assistant
Professor IIT Guwahati Mathematics & Statistics: Linear and

Deepakkumar M
Fulwani Assistant
Professor IIT Bombay Electrical Engineering: Control and
state estimation of uncertain systems,
Power system, Control issues in wind
energy conversion system
Gaurav Harit Assistant
Professor IIT Delhi Computer Science &
Engineering:Image and Video Analysis
Gourishankar S
Hiremath Assistant
Professor University of
Hyderabad Economics:Financial
Economics,Financial Markets,
International Finance, Economics of
Energy, Long Memory, Cooperatives,
Hari Narayanan V Assistant
Professor IIT Kanpur Philosophy: Cognitive Studies,
George Assistant
Professor IIT Kanpur Philosophy:Applied Ethics, Ethics of
Technology, Bioethics Philosophy:Applied Ethics, Ethics of
Kodimattam Technology, Bioethics
K K Dua K K Dua Visiting Zoology(Environmental Pollution),
Faculty Bioethics
Kirankumar
Rajshekhar
Hiremath Assistant
Professor Assistant University of Twente
(The Netherlands) Mathematics & Statistics: Theoretical,
mathematical and computational
aspects of wave-matter interactions Mathematics & Statistics: Theoretical,
Professor mathematical and computational
Laltu Chandra Assistant
Professor Forschungszentrum
Karlsruhe GmbH &
University of
Karlsruhe, Germany Mechanical Engineering : Solar thermal
system, Thermal hydraulics,
Turbulence
simulation(DNS/LES/HYBRID/RANS)
& model development, Computational
Fluid Dynamics, Heat Exchager design

Mainak
Mazumdar Assistant
Professor Instiute for Social
and Economic
Change (ISEC) Economics: Intellectual Property
Manish Dev
Shrimali Assistant
Professor JNU Physics: Nonlinear Dynamics and
Meenu Chhabra Assistant
Professor IIT Delhi Biological Science & Bio-Engineering
:Renewable Bioenergy Bioremediation Biological Science & Bio-Engineering
Monika Sinha Assistant Jadavpur University Physics: Astrophysics, Astroparticle
Professor physics
Pradeep Kumar P Assistant
Professor Assistant IIT Bombay Mechanical Engineering: Thermal
Professor hydraulics, Solar thermal system,
Puneet Sharma Assistant
Professor IIT Delhi Mathematics & Statistics: Topological
Dynamics, Low Dimensional Chaos Mathematics & Statistics: Topological
Pushkar Shripad
Joglekar Assistant
Professor Institute of Computer Science & Engineering:
Mathematical Computational Complexity,
Sciences, Chennai Algorithms.
Rahul Chhibber Assistant
Professor IIT Roorkee IIT Roorkee Mechanical Engineering: Welding and
Rahul Singhal Visiting Delhi University Energy, Biosensors Energy, Biosensors
Rajiv Shekhar Visiting University of Energy
California

Rakesh Kumar
Sharma Assistant
Professor Indian Institute of
Science Chemistry: Water splitting catalysis,
solar hydrogen production
Macromolecule based molecular
sensors, Heterogeneous catalysis for
small molecule activation, Green
Chemistry Catalysis for stereocontrol
Plastic electronics, Feedstock
Chemistry, Catalysis for energy
solutions, coordination Chemistry
based of d- and f- block element. Water
chemistry.
Prof. Ravindra
Arora Professor TU Dresden,
Germany Electrical Engineering: Electrical
Sandeep Kumar
Yadav Assistant
Professor IIT Kanpur Electrical Engineering: Signal
Processing, Condition Monitoring,
Image Processing, Data Compression,
Blind Source Separation, Artificial
Neural Network. Electrical Engineering: Signal
Satyabrata
Adhikari Assistant
Professor Bengal Engineering Mathematics & Statistics: Quantum
Information
Shaligram Tiwari Visiting
Faculty IIT Kanpur IIT Kanpur Mechanical Engineering: Heat and
Harinipriya
Seshadri Assistant
Professor IIT Madras Chemistry: Lithium ion batteries, fuel
cells, electrodeposition, Thermal
storage systems, Monte Carlo
simulations, Materials synthesis and
characterisation
Shanmuganathan
Raman Assistant
Professor IIT Bombay Electrical Engineering : Computer

Shree Prakash
Tiwari Assistant
Professor IIT Bombay Electrical Engineering:
Microelectronics & VLSI Technology,
Microfabrication, Organic Electronics,
Device Physics and Characterization,
New Device Structures
Sonam Mehrotra Assistant
Professor Rutgers, New
Brunswick, U.S.A Biological Science & Bio-Engineering:
Cellular and Molecular Bio sciences,
Genetic Engineering, Cancer Biology
Subhashish
Banerjee Assistant
Professor JNU Physics: Open Quantum Systems;
Quantum Information;Non-Equilibrium
Statistical Mechanics;Quantum Optics
Sushmita Jha Assistant
Professor University of North
Carolina at Chapel
Hill, USA Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience:
Cellular and molecular Neuroscience,
Cell and molecular Physiology
VenkataRamana
Badarla Assistant
Professor IIT Madras Computer Science & Engineering:
V. Narayan Assistant
Professor IIT Kanpur Physics: Optics and Solar Field Design,

Vidya
Sarveswaran Assistant
Professor IIT Madras English: Literature and
Vivek
Vijayvargiya Assistant
Professor IIT Madras Mathematics & Statistics: Financial
V. V. M. Sarma
Chandramouli Assistant
Professor SUNY at Stony Mathematics & Statistics: Smooth
Brook, USA and Dynamical Systems, Renormalization
RUG, The of Unimodal maps and Henon-like
Netherlands maps

Institute Staff
Name Designation
Dr. Kshema Prakash 
Deputy Librarian
Amardeep Sharma 
Asst. Registrar
K.K. Mathur 
Asst. Proj.Officer
Gaurav Nigam 
Jr. Superintendent
Sandeep Singh Chandel 
Jr. Superintendent
Sharabh Pradhan 
Jr. Superintendent
Swati Kushwaha 
Jr. Assistant
Dhani Ram 
Jr. Assistant
Vinay Kumar 
Jr. Engineer
Shiv Ram Jat 
Jr. Assistant
Rajendra Vaishnav 
Jr. Accountant
Sharad Srivastava 
Jr. Accountant
Dr. Leela Dhar Sanwal 
Medical Officer
Dr. M.M. Purohit 
Medical Officer
Dr. M.S. Charan 
Medical Officer
Apesh Singh Deora 
P.T.I.
Kamal Kumar 
P.T.I.
Rimpesh Katiyar 
Technical Superintendent
Narendra Kumar Singh 
Technical Superintendent
Amit Kumar Soni 
Sr. Library Information Assistant
Dheerendra Yadav 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Sanjay 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Vijay 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Bharat Pareek 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Rinkesh K. Mangal 
Junior Technical Superintendent
Vivek Verma 
Jr. Lab Assistant
Yogesh Kumar 
Jr. Lab Assistant
Amit Gupta 
Jr. Lab Assistant

Student Activities
Unique Governance System (SCHoD)
NUTS
WAWES
SAGE
PROM
Major Student Events
Parivarthan
Councelling Servive
Student Placement Cell
Allumni Association
List of Students

Unique Governance System: SCHoD
Students’ Council for Holistic Development (SCHoD) is the regulatory body which facilitates 
and governs all student activities at IIT Jodhpur. With advisory support from the faculty, the 
SCHoD is run entirely by students. The elected leader of the SCHoD is the president. Apart 
from acting as the governing body for all the concerns of the students, SCHoD coordinates 
the activities of five different councils:
1. NUTS: Nurturing and Understanding of Technology and Science 
2. PROM: Promotion Relations Ocassion Management 
3. WAVES: Writing Awareness Vocal Entertainment Social Awareness 
4. SAGE: Sports Adventure Games And Exploration 
5. MAD: Media Arts Design
These councils work collectively together and is headed and run by the students for the 
students. The councils run the extra-curricular activities in the campus. Each council has 
various clubs through which it functions and performs it various activities.
Cultural, Technical, Sports, Media and Management constitute the entire activities of 
SCHoD. SCHoD has something to catch the attention of each and every student of IIT 
Jodhpur. The SCHoD is responsible for planning, designing and executing intra as well as 
inter collegiate events.
Nurturing Understanding in Technology and Science (NUTS)
NUTS is a part of Student’s body SCHoD and provides students an opportunity to explore 
the amazing world of technology, in order to innovate, to learn, to create, and to try out new 
things and at the same time have loads and loads of fun. This is a platform for one to realize 
his/her dream and to develop the next generation technology.
NUTS urges everyone to think beyond conventional boundaries. It also provides support and 
opportunity to help one unleash his/her imagination and an ideal platform to showcase one’s 
talent. We make things fly, we build electronic gadgets, our own communication devices, we 
dare to stare deep into the sky not only to admire the cosmic wonder, but a lot more; we write 
our own codes, and we do make our own robots.

Media, Arts and Design (MAD)
Media, Arts and Design is one of the most active students councils of IIT Jodhpur. Under the 
MAD council five clubs function very efficiently and smoothly with the help of an official 
coordinator and an assistant coordinator besides the student volunteers. All the clubs are 
under the direct supervision of the General Executive of the council. The following clubs 
function under the MAD Council:
Photography and Photo-editing Club.
Video Editing Club
Fine Arts Club
Media Screening
Animation

Writing, Awareness, Vocals, Entertainment and Social awareness
The WAVES cell is responsible for conducting several events and for providing several 
avenues for students to express their freedom and creativity. These events include workshops 
and competitions, helping students showcase, as well as hone their talents. The following 
clubs function under the WAVES cell:
The Music Club: It is the haven for the musically inclined, dealing with the entire musical 
spectrum, from Hindustani to Western, vocals and instrumentals.
The Dance Club: It consists of an extremely competitive team that has performed at festivals 
across the country.
The Drama Club: It produces a wide variety of plays, including comedy and Nukkad (street 
plays) that raise awareness about burning social issues.
Sports, Adventures, Games, and Explorations (SAGE)
Sports, Adventures, Games and Explorations is an organization dedicated to the improvement 
of traditional sports education and to the configuring of a unique sports culture through 
various competitions, festivals, disciplines, and social integration programs. The SAGE seeks 
to develop a system that brings a healthier way of life to our student athletes, helps them 
make better decisions, feel a winning attitude, and assists them in developing their skills and 
abilities, thereby making them better human beings.
Sports council with its fabulous performance in consecutive 4 Inter IIT festivals has 
motivated each and every student of the institute to be a part of it and contribute to it even 
further. The SAGE has been successfully organizing various inter college and intra college 
festivals in every academic session like Varchas and Kridansh. The SAGE also has the 
recreational clubs such as Adventure Club, Carom Club, Chess Club, Bridge Club, Skating 
Club, and Yoga Club.
Promotion Relation Occasion Management (PROM)
Promotion Relation Occasion Management, (PROM), is the 5th and newest cell of IIT 
Jodhpur’s Students Council For Holistic Development. A very non-technical cell, PROM 
deals with the managerial and social aspects of a student’s life in IIT Jodhpur. In today’s 
overly competitive world, a student does not only need to be technically sound, but also 
capable of putting the deal across the table, and making a generally good impression among 
their peers, superiors and juniors. A successful person today is recognised by the ease of 
communication, body language, punctuality, self-confidence and motivational capabilities, as 
well as proficiency in their field of interest. At IIT Jodhpur, students, through their academics 
and other extra-curricular activities, attain technical proficiency of the highest level. With the

inception of PROM, it is absolutely certain that the students walking out of this campus will 
also be able to take control and execute activities and jobs as required from them. At IIT 
Jodhpur, a student will, thus, participate in events technical, cultural, or sporty in nature, 
while also learning how to plan, organise, conduct and execute such events. Students will 
also get an opportunity to express and experience as they move from under-graduate students 
to mature, full-grown individual personalities. PROM provides a platform for budding 
businessmen, entrepreneurs, and managers. It inculcates in the individual a sense of 
responsibility and purpose, and helps them decide a plan of action to go about tackling 
various obstacles.
Major Student Events
The students were successful in nurturing a culture filled with energy and initiative. Students 
have organized several events, which served as a medium of communication and bonding 
among them, given their variegated background and ethnicity. Several major festivals like 
Diwali, Lohri, Eid and Holi were celebrated with great enthusiasm. Various sports activities 
were also regularly conducted to encourage sportsmanship. The faculty members were 
greatly supportive and promoted these activities. The following are some of the major student 
activities that had taken place in the campus in the academic year 2011-2012:
Spandan
The inter-hostel cultural festival Spandan celebrated from 21 to 23 October, 2011 was a big 
hit. The theme being ‘Rural India,’ the whole of G.P.R.A (the residential campus) was 
decked up to look like a village with huts, pots at places. The evening marked its beginning 
with a musical event blending the Indian classical, tabla with the rock electric guitar. This 
was followed by Rajasthani folk dance-’Kalbeliya Dance’ by professionals. The competitions 
began with Arangetram, on the spot solo dance, and Antakshari. The Spandan weekend was 
full of events leaving all enthralled. This intra college festival aimed at increasing the 
interaction among students and gave all a platform to show their talents.

NiMBLE
The intra-college technical festival of IIT Jodhpur, NiMBLE was celebrated from 4th-6th 
November, 2011. There were 20 events as part of this festival. The theme this year’s 
NiMBLE was “The Battleground” and the entire college was divided into 8 teams with cut-
throat competitions to test their technical competence.

Kridansh
It is the annual intra-college sports festival of IITJ. It is the fest which has seen maximum 
participation over the years. There have been three editions of this fest and competitions in all 
the major sports are conducted. Also many informal events like Obstacle race, 6x100 m 
mixed relay and street cricket are played. This has been enjoyed enormously by everyone.
Intercollege Festivals
Ignus
‘IGNUS 2012′ consisted of VARCHAS (the sports festival) and TAKSH (the techno-cult- 
entrepreneurship festival).
Varchas: This is the annual sports festival of IIT Jodhpur. Competitions in sports such as 
Football, Volleyball, Basketball, Badminton, Table Tennis, Athletics, Lawn Tennis, Cricket 
and Chess were organized. The events attracted participants from all over the country. It saw 
the participation of over 500 athletes. The sponsorship for the fest was really good and saw 
generous funding for all the events. Excellent facilities were made available for the sports-
persons participating in the events. This festival held up the expectations of an IIT.

Taksh: This techno-cult festival of IIT Jodhpur saw enormous participation. One of the 
biggest attractions of the day—the Taj IIT Conclave, the young entrepreneurship meet was a 
phenomenal success and saw an enthusiastic turn up from students. The most eagerly awaited 
attraction of the festival was the band performance by Ashwamedh, a renowned band from 
Pune. Students went berserk as Ashwamedh rocked the stage with a mind blowing 
performance.
Independence Day Celebrations
The second Independence Day celebration of the Institute at Jodhpur was held on 15 August 
2011. The Director, faculty members, staff and students were present. The function started in 
the morning of August 15 at the Academic campus with the Director hoisting the national 
flag, followed by the Director’s address and various cultural programs organized by the 
students.

Republic Day Celebrations
The Republic Day celebration 2012 started with a parade of the security wing, followed by 
the Director’s hoisting of the national flag. The Director’s address emphasized the

significance of the day. The celebration witnessed several cultural programs organized by the 
students.

Gandhi Jayanthi Celebrations
IIT Jodhpur community gathered on 2 October 2011 to celebrate the birthday of the father of 
the nation Mahatma Gandhi. The function was illuminated by the inspiring speeches of 
faculty members and student representatives.
Parivartan
Parivarthan is a social initiative undertaken by IIT Jodhpur community. We are working in 
the direction of making an educated and well informed society around us. It is an initiative to 
improve education level and awareness in the poor and deprived section of society through 
teaching, youth counselling, and parent counselling. We adopt a village which is very poor, 
literacy rate is very low, where basic facilities of life like health, water, shelter, education etc 
are not easily available. Our objective is to convert that village into a developed village in 
such a manner that it will represent an ideal model of developed village in 21st century. 
 
According to the plan, separate strategies for the welfare of child, adult or working people 
and old people will be followed.
1) Children: quality education will be made available to them 
2) Adult or working people: our attempt will be to enhance the skills of working population 
of that village through small workshop or training. And also increase the employment 
opportunity for skilled labour through our network in city or provide them opportunity to earn 
by working at their home itself. 
3) Old People: we will try to ensure good health to old people and also try to shape their role

as moral guard in the village so that unethical and unfair acts in the village can be 
discouraged efficiently.
Counselling Service
Studying at IIT will bring about tremendous academic growth and overall development; 
however, it will also be accompanied by significant challenges and considerable stress. Our 
counselling services team provides personalized guidance and necessary resources to help 
students under duress to achieve their goals. The counselling service is a voluntary 
organization formed by a group of dedicated students guided by faculty members. It helps 
students deal with various problems both personal and academic, and plays a significant role 
in enriching their experiences as students in the institute. 
 
The counselling service was formed in the year 2009 by the first batch of students under the 
supervision of a faculty advisor. Over the years it has evolved into a significant body 
comprising of seven faculty members and a total of 25 students. Student guides and members 
of the counselling team are selected through an annual election process. Each student guide is 
responsible for the wellbeing of 8-10 students from the 1st year undergraduate batch. The 
counselling service strives for the well being of all students and assists in their academic and 
personal growth. It provides voluntary, confidential and free counselling for a wide range of 
issues that include: 
 
● Academic support: Provides information about the different academic programmes of the 
institute, efficient time management skills, study skills, exam anxiety etc. 
● Personal: Overcoming home-sickness, adjustment to new environment etc. 
● Counselling advocacy, psycho-education and referral services to students 
● Interaction with the institute and the existing body of students 
● Encourages students discover extra-curricular interests/hobbies
Student Placement Cell
The Student Placement Cell (SPC) is entirely run and managed by the students in harmony 
with the official authorities, thereby taking care of the entire placement and internship 
procedure. The students coordinate the job of contacting various companies, their interaction 
with the students, arranging pre-placement talks, tests, interviews. 
 
In the academic year 2011-2012, SPC organised two soft skills workshop in which eminent 
speakers guided the students on personality development and interview skills. 
 
The speakers were: 
 
Lorraine Coutinho (Latitude Group) 
Dr Prashant Jha

PG201081501 Belal Usmani Energy
PG201081502 Dharmendra Singh Rajpurohit Energy
PG201081504 Suresh Kumar Energy
PG201082502 Deepak Kumar Chhangani ICT
PG201181001 Deepesh Patidar Energy
PG201181003 Pura Ram Energy
PG201181004 Vikas Pratap Singh Energy
PG201181005 Vikash Chandra Janu Energy
PG201181501 Lokesh Saini Energy
PG201181502 Surendra Singh Barala Energy
PG201182001 Abhay Samant ICT
PG201182003 Heena Rathore ICT
PG201182005 Puneet Kumar Jain ICT
PG201182006 Ram Niwash Mahia ICT
PG201182007 Ravi Raj Choudhary ICT
PG201182009 Sapana Ranwa ICT
PG201182010 Saurabh Maheshwari ICT
PG201182011 Sibani Bisoyi ICT
PG201182501 Amit Bhati ICT
PG201182502 Kapil Sharma ICT
PG201182504 Kuldeep Goswami ICT
PG201182505 Mohd Najim ICT
PG201182506 Shrivishal Tripathi ICT
PG201183001 Rohan Sharma SS
The placement session was divided into two parts which went on for the first 10 days of 
December 2011 and then from 10 Jan- 25 Jan 2012. Many companies in core engineering, IT, 
and banking sector, including Microsoft, National Instruments, Samsung, Flipkart, and ARM, 
have visited IIT Rajasthan since then. Public sector companies have also participated in 
campus placements.
Allumni Association
IIT Jodhpur proudly saw its first batch of B. Tech.students Completing their academic 
program in April 2012. An Allumni Association was formed in order to provide them with a 
platform where they can stay connected to the institute, their fellow alumni, and junior 
students.
List of Students

PG201183501 Parmod Kumar SS
PG201183502 Preeti Yadav SS
PG201171001 Akash Yadav Energy
PG201171003 Anurag Energy
PG201171004 Digpal Kumar Energy
PG201171005 Gaurav Hedau Energy
PG201171006 Nupur Rathore Energy
PG201171007 Pallavi Kar Energy
PG201171008 Parag Kamal Talukdar Energy
PG201171009 Priyanka Bhartiya Energy
PG201171010 Rakesh Kumar Energy
PG201171011 Rakesh Sarma Energy
PG201171012 Ram Niwas Verma Energy
PG201171013 Shubhi Srivastava Energy
PG201171014 Vinod Kumar Verma Energy
PG201171015 Ayyaz Siddique Energy
PG201172001 Amrik Singh ICT
PG201172002 Ankita Samariya ICT
PG201172003 Anop Singh ICT
PG201172004 Deepak Kumar Gupta ICT
PG201172005 Durgesh Kumar ICT
PG201172006 Garima Jain ICT
PG201172007 Gaurav Raj ICT
PG201172008 Govind Salvi ICT
PG201172009 Himanshu Singhvi ICT
PG201172010 Kapil Lahuwa ICT
PG201172011 Nagabhushan Eswara ICT
PG201172012 Nakul Shashikant Goud ICT
PG201172013 Naman Joshi ICT
PG201172014 Prasad Kulkarni ICT
PG201172015 Ramnarayan Yadav ICT
PG201172016 Ravi Bhandari ICT
PG201172017 Ravi Ranjan ICT
PG201172018 Satyanarayan Sahu ICT
PG201172019 Saurabh Heda ICT
PG201172020 Shahnawaz Abdullah ICT
PG201172021 Shailendra Soni ICT
PG201172022 Supratim Shit ICT
M. Tech Students

PG201172023 Umesh Tanwar ICT
PG201172024 Yatin Mehandiratta ICT
PG201172025 Zafar Ahmed Ansari ICT
PG201172026 Ety Mittal ICT
PG201172027 Shantanav Chakraborty ICT
J08001 Abhash Kumar Singh CSE
J08002 Abhishek Kumar EE
J08003 Aditya Upadhyay EE
J08004 Akash Gupta CSE
J08005 Akash Gupta ME
J08006 Akash Kumar CSE
J08007 Akhil Jhalani CSE
J08008 Alok Verma EE
J08009 Alok Yadav CSE
J08010 Amit Patel EE
J08011 Amit Pushp ME
J08013 Anil Kumar Alwaria ME
J08015 Ankit Agarwal CSE
J08016 Ankit Agarwal ME
J08017 Ankit Goyal CSE
J08018 Ankit Goyal CSE
J08019 Ankit Saraswat ME
J08020 Ankit Rajotia ME
J08021 Ankur Khandelwal EE
J08022 Annu Saini ME
J08023 Anurag Chaurasia CSE
J08024 Appoorve Kaushal Arya ME
J08025 Arjun Pandian T ME
J08026 Arpit Toshniwal CSE
J08027 Ashish Katiyar EE
J08028 Atul Anand ME
J08029 Maruthi Chand Bhogireddi EE
J08030 Brajesh Kumar EE
J08031 Chandan Kumar CSE
J08032 Chetan Bhati EE
J08033 Coutinho Brain Camilo EE
J08034 D Vijay Kumar EE
J08035 Deepak Kumar Gupta CSE
J08036 Dhruv Gupta ME
J08037 Dibya Deepta Mishra EE
J08038 Digumarti Sundara Tejaswi EE
J08039 Dushyant Pratap Singh ME
J08040 Erram Vipanch ME
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2008

J08041 Faizy Ahsan CSE
J08042 Gaurav Sachan CSE
J08043 Gaurav Sahu CSE
J08044 Gautam Jain ME
J08045 Gorle Venkata Ramana ME
J08046 Gurram Krishna Sudhama ME
J08047 Haresh Kumar Solanki CSE
J08048 Himanshu Aggrawal EE
J08049 Jaiprakash ME
J08051 Jothishwaran C A EE
J08052 Kamble Shivanjali Sadashiv CSE
J08053 Kavish Chaurasia ME
J08054 Koganti Nishanth EE
J08055 Koneti Geervani CSE
J08056 Kshitiz Baratariya CSE
J08057 Kumar Gaurav EE
J08058 Lal Chand Bisu EE
J08059 Maitri Rohit Vishwanath ME
J08060 Masuram Kiran Kumar EE
J08061 Mayank Bakshi EE
J08062 Mayank Singh CSE
J08063 Mehakdeep Singh CSE
J08064 Mutukuloju Murali ME
J08065 Nadipelly Suraj Rao EE
J08066 Nakka Chanakya Dev CSE
J08067 Narendra Chaudhary EE
J08068 Naveen Kumar EE
J08069 Nikhil Goyal CSE
J08070 Nikhil Goyal EE
J08071 Nikhil Jain EE
J08072 Nirmal Kumawat CSE
J08073 Nishant Kejriwal CSE
J08074 Nithin Karnati CSE
J08075 Nuthalapati Rahul Pavan Kumar ME
J08076 Obbani Chaitanya Deepthi CSE
J08078 Pallavi Arya ME
J08079 Parul Garg CSE
J08080 Patel Hardikkumar CSE
J08081 Pradumn Kumar Pandey CSE
J08082 Prashant Garg EE
J08083 Prateek Agarwal EE
J08084 Prateek Jawalkar EE
J08085 Priya Ranjani Das B CSE
J08086 Rahul Jain ME
J08087 Raj Kumar EE
J08088 Ranjan Kumar ME

J08089 Ranveer Singh CSE
J08090 Praveen Garg ME
J08091 Ravinder Gupta ME
J08092 Rupal Khare CSE
J08093 Sachin Kumar Singh EE
J08094 Sachin Singh ME
J08095 Salman Khaleeq ME
J08096 Sanapati Chanakyapatrudu ME
J08097 Sandeep Singh Tomar CSE
J08098 Sankalp Kumar Singh CSE
J08099 Shivansh Chaudhary EE
J08100 Shivaram I EE
J08101 Shobhit Srivastava CSE
J08102 Shriyesh Gautam CSE
J08103 Sunil Sulania EE
J08104 Swathi Manda ME
J08105 Tara Chand Khorwal EE
J08106 Tarun Chaudhary EE
J08107 Tejas Vijay Muley ME
J08108 Vaibhav Kumar Singh CSE
J08109 Vemuluru Venkata Sri Harsha ME
J08110 Vipul Sharma EE
J08111 Vishal Kadian CSE
J09001 Abhinav Dadhich EE
J09002 Abhinav Piprotar EE
J09004 Abhishek Verma EE
J09005 Ajay Monga CSE
J09006 Akanksha Saran CSE
J09007 Akash Deep EE
J09009 Akshay Hari Kumar ME
J09010 Akshay Jain ME
J09011 Amit Lonkar ME
J09012 Amit Ranjan Trivedi CSE
J09013 Amit Srivastava EE
J09014 Amol Pol CSE
J09015 Ankit Karwasra CSE
J09016 Ankit Gupta ME
J09017 Anurag EE
J09018 Anurag Mittal EE
J09019 Anurup Ganguli ME
J09020 Ashish Aseri CSE
J09021 Ashish Pandey ME
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2009

J09022 Ashok Banjara EE
J09023 Aswin Siva N CSE
J09024 Avinash Yadav EE
J09025 Ayyer Rishi Kalyan ME
J09027 Bhaskar Puri ME
J09028 Bhuwanesh Kumawat ME
J09029 Boobalan G EE
J09030 Chetan Bhatsange EE
J09031 Devula Vinay Kumar EE
J09032 Eshan Jain CSE
J09033 Ganduri Rahul Goutham EE
J09034 Gaurav Kumar ME
J09035 Gaurav Siwach ME
J09036 Gautam Bajaj CSE
J09037 Girish Budhwani CSE
J09038 Govind Agarwal EE
J09039 Govind Ram CSE
J09040 Gundre Vaibhav Pralhad ME
J09041 Harshit Kumar Pancholi ME
J09042 Hitesh Choudhary ME
J09043 Jatin Goyal ME
J09044 Jatin Rustagi EE
J09045 Jogendra Singh CSE
J09046 Joshi Darshan Rajeev EE
J09047 Kalpana Verma CSE
J09048 Kasuvojula Devendar ME
J09049 Keshav Kumar CSE
J09050 Kiran Kumari CSE
J09051 Kshitij Kumar ME
J09052 Kumar Ashayam Gupta CSE
J09053 Kunal Chelani EE
J09054 Lakhan Singh Jatav ME
J09055 M. Vidhya Sagar EE
J09057 Manish Kumar Jain CSE
J09058 Manvendra Singh Chauhan EE
J09059 Mayank Agarwal CSE
J09060 Mohammad Firoz ME
J09061 Mohammed Aquibuddin Ahmed EE
J09062 Rajni Yadav EE
J09063 Naveen Kumar Gautam EE
J09064 Naveen Shrivastava CSE
J09065 Nikita Chopra CSE
J09067 Nithin Kumar Kokkisa ME
J09068 Pawan Kumar Sharma CSE
J09069 Prafful Gupta EE

J09070 Pranay Balar CSE
J09071 Prashant Babu CSE
J09072 Prashant Godara ME
J09073 Prashant Kumar Shukla ME
J09074 Pratesh Jhari ME
J09075 Prem Raj CSE
J09076 Radhe Shyam Meena EE
J09077 Rahul Nahata CSE
J09078 Rahul Sachan CSE
J09079 Rajendra Nagar EE
J09080 Rajput Shailendra Shesh Kumar CSE
J09081 Rameshwar Prasad Meghwal CSE
J09082 Ravin Kumar Jain CSE
J09083 Rohit Jangir CSE
J09084 Ruchi Toshniwal CSE
J09085 Sanjay Kumar Rajak ME
J09086 Sanjay Kumar Rav CSE
J09087 Sarthak Sharma EE
J09088 Satyesh Jha ME
J09089 Saurabh Garg EE
J09090 Saurajit Sar EE
J09091 Shah Chintan Chirag CSE
J09092 Shashank Kumar CSE
J09093 Shobhit Mandloi EE
J09094 Sonal Gupta CSE
J09095 Sumit CSE
J09096 Sunil Saini EE
J09097 Surendra S Choudhary ME
J09098 Surendra Verma EE
J09099 Sushant Gaurav EE
J09100 Syed Faizul Hai EE
J09101 Tambade Narendra Satish ME
J09102 Tokala Sai Teja CSE
J09103 Utkarsha Verma EE
J09104 Vaibhav Jain CSE
J09105 Vennam Samuel Susmith ME
J09106 Vinay Kumar ME
J09107 Vivek Sharma EE
J09108 Yogesh Kumar Verma EE
J09109 Zubin Sortee CSE
UG201010001 Abhishek Anand CSE
UG201010002 Aman Deep CSE
UG201010003 Amar Singh Saini CSE
UG201010004 Anurag Saini CSE
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2010

UG201010005 Bollempalli Trivikram Chowdary CSE
UG201010006 Dheeraj Tak CSE
UG201010007 Godugu Ravi Kiran CSE
UG201010008 Hemlata Soni CSE
UG201010009 Junaid Masood CSE
UG201010010 Kanchan Kumari CSE
UG201010011 Khusheeram Meena CSE
UG201010012 Kishor Mehra CSE
UG201010013 Lalit Yadav CSE
UG201010014 Mahesh Chand Gurjar CSE
UG201010015 Mandeep Singh Yadav CSE
UG201010016 Manish Kumawat CSE
UG201010017 Manpreet Singh Bedi CSE
UG201010018 Mohd Asad CSE
UG201010019 Mohd Hamzah Khan CSE
UG201010020 Monu CSE
UG201010021 Narendra Meena CSE
UG201010022 Nishchay Kala CSE
UG201010023 Pankaj Agrawal CSE
UG201010024 Pankaj Bhardwaj CSE
UG201010025 Pankaj Khandelwal CSE
UG201010026 Pavan Meena CSE
UG201010027 Pawan Meena CSE
UG201010028 Reena Yadav CSE
UG201010029 Rohit Gupta CSE
UG201010030 S Praveenkumar CSE
UG201010031 Saurabh Singh CSE
UG201010032 Sourabh Maheshwari CSE
UG201010033 Sukalkar Pavan Vijayrao CSE
UG201010034 Sumit Jangid CSE
UG201010035 Sunita Pateer CSE
UG201010036 Surendra Singh Meena CSE
UG201010037 Tapish Rathore CSE
UG201010038 Vemana Vinith CSE
UG201010039 Vikas Goyal CSE
UG201010040 Vikas Yadav CSE
UG201010041 Vinod Kumar Meena CSE
UG201010042 Vishwas Garg CSE
UG201010043 Yogesh Kumar Gupta CSE
UG201010044 Manu Agarwal CSE
UG201011001 Aayush Verma EE
UG201011002 Amit Kumar Verma EE
UG201011003 Arun Balajee V EE
UG201011004 Bharat Kumar Tanwar EE
UG201011005 Chintapalli Siva Pratheek EE
UG201011006 Dilip Kumar Meena EE
UG201011008 Ghatge Mayur Sambhaji EE

UG201011009 Himanshu Jaiswal EE
UG201011010 Mahesh Chandra M EE
UG201011011 Manish Kumar Meena EE
UG201011013 Mukul Bansal EE
UG201011014 Narendra Kumar Singh EE
UG201011016 Nimmarthi Vara Prasad EE
UG201011017 Pasunoori Prashanth EE
UG201011018 Pote Rohan Ramchandra EE
UG201011019 Prince Gupta EE
UG201011020 Priya Dhandev EE
UG201011021 Rahul Malav EE
UG201011022 Rahul Meena EE
UG201011023 Rajat Jain EE
UG201011024 Rajeev Kumar EE
UG201011025 Ravi Mahavar EE
UG201011026 Rinku Meena EE
UG201011027 Rishi Kumar EE
UG201011028 Rit Shekhawat EE
UG201011029 Saba Suhail EE
UG201011030 Sandeep Kumar Singh EE
UG201011031 Saurabh Santosh EE
UG201011032 Shashikant EE
UG201011033 Siddharth Singh Rao EE
UG201011034 Shiv Singh Meena EE
UG201011035 Srikanth M EE
UG201011036 Sudesh Gora EE
UG201011037 Sudhir Kumar Singh EE
UG201011038 Surya Pratap Singh Yadav EE
UG201011039 Tarun Patel EE
UG201011040 Tirumani Vamshi Krishna EE
UG201011041 Veepee Singh Meena EE
UG201011042 Vikash Kumar EE
UG201011043 Vinod Meena EE
UG201011044 Vivek Dubey EE
UG201011045 Yogendra Kumar Goyal EE
UG201011046 Aswin Suresh EE
UG201011047 Hemant Verma EE
UG201012001 Abhinav ME
UG201012002 Aditya Budaraju ME
UG201012003 Aditya Ranjan ME
UG201012004 Akash Bansal ME
UG201012005 Akhilendra Singh ME
UG201012006 Aman Doharey ME
UG201012007 Ankur Hasija ME
UG201012008 Anshul Gupta ME
UG201012009 Anuj Kumar ME
UG201012010 Ashok Kumar Meena ME

UG201012012 Chetram Meena ME
UG201012014 Gudla Sushanth ME
UG201012015 Gaurav Kumar ME
UG201012018 Jagmohan Shree Rao ME
UG201012019 Jaideep ME
UG201012020 Jai Prakash Meena ME
UG201012021 Kuldeep Singh ME
UG201012022 Manraj Meena ME
UG201012023 Mohit Naneria ME
UG201012024 Niket Kumar Singh ME
UG201012025 Nishant Kumar ME
UG201012026 Nitesh Kumar ME
UG201012027 Nitin Katiyar ME
UG201012028 Pradeep Rai ME
UG201012030 Rooga Ram ME
UG201012032 Sachin Gupta ME
UG201012033 Sarvesh Dayal ME
UG201012034 Shaikh Abu Amsal ME
UG201012035 Shivendra Rai ME
UG201012036 Siddarth Jain ME
UG201012037 Sitaram Meena ME
UG201012038 Snehlata Joshi ME
UG201012039 Tanmay Sethi ME
UG201012040 Utkarsh Trivedi ME
UG201012041 Vasu Goenka ME
UG201012042 Vijay Singh Meena ME
UG201012043 Vipin Kumar ME
UG201012044 Vivek Ganj Gahlot ME
UG201012045 Yatin Chaudhary ME
UG201012046 Yogesh Kumar ME
UG201110001 Abhishek Saini CSE
UG201110002 Amit Raj CSE
UG201110003 Apurv Gupta CSE
UG201110004 Ashish Kumar CSE
UG201110005 Banoth Surya Prasad CSE
UG201110006 Debashish Ghatak CSE
UG201110007 Deven Bhooshan CSE
UG201110008 Gurupratap CSE
UG201110009 Hari Om Gaur CSE
UG201110010 Heena Masuriya CSE
UG201110011 Hemraj Kumawat CSE
UG201110012 Jitendra Kumar Chaudhary CSE
UG201110013 Jitendra Singh Garhwal CSE
UG201110014 Kalpnath Rao CSE
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2011

UG201110015 Kankanti Nithin Veer Reddy CSE
UG201110017 Kuchana Maharshi Devaraj CSE
UG201110018 Mahesh CSE
UG201110019 Mayank Agrawal CSE
UG201110020 Mayank Mittal CSE
UG201110021 Palak Samaiya CSE
UG201110022 Pitta Divya Shree CSE
UG201110023 Praneeth A S CSE
UG201110024 Prashant Rastogi CSE
UG201110025 Ravi Kumar Meena CSE
UG201110026 Revti Raman Singh CSE
UG201110027 Rishi Mishra CSE
UG201110028 Sahil Kharb CSE
UG201110029 Sanjeev Kumar CSE
UG201110030 Santosh Kumar Siddharth CSE
UG201110031 Saurabh Kumar Gangwar CSE
UG201110032 Shah Jenil Dilip CSE
UG201110033 Shivam Verma CSE
UG201110034 Siddharth Kumar Singh CSE
UG201110035 Siddharth Maheshwari CSE
UG201110036 Sonu Mehta CSE
UG201110037 Syed Navaid Ahmad CSE
UG201110038 Yash Kumar Sonthalia CSE
UG201110039 Yeravothula Rohith CSE
UG201110040 Gatla Rajasekhar Reddy CSE
UG201111001 Abhishek Bassan EE
UG201111002 Abhishek Pilania EE
UG201111003 Anshul Narayan Bhatt EE
UG201111004 Anshul Singh Parihar EE
UG201111005 Anurag Dharmawat EE
UG201111006 Atul Agarwal EE
UG201111007 Battula Sasi Kaushik EE
UG201111008 Brajesh Kumar EE
UG201111009 Bussa Pavan Kumar EE
UG201111010 Damacharla Sandeep EE
UG201111011 Devendra Kumar Jangid EE
UG201111012 Gajarla Ravi Teja EE
UG201111014 Guneet Singh Mehta EE
UG201111015 Hari Om Meena EE
UG201111016 Harshit Dixit EE
UG201111017 Hem Singh Meena EE
UG201111018 Hemant Kumar Biloniya EE
UG201111019 Kadoo Amruta Anil EE
UG201111020 Kotha Sudheer EE
UG201111021 Koyinni Deekshitha EE
UG201111022 Krishna Kumar Damolia EE
UG201111023 Kuldeep Singh Rathore EE

UG201111024 Kumar Saurav EE
UG201111025 Lalithkumar P EE
UG201111026 Prashant Mittal EE
UG201111027 Rahul Rathore EE
UG201111028 Rangaraju Yashomani Srikar EE
UG201111029 Ravindra Kumar Sharma EE
UG201111030 Ravyansh Kumar EE
UG201111031 Sanchit Kumar Singh EE
UG201111032 Satyendra Kumar Gautam EE
UG201111033 Shivalika Agarwal EE
UG201111034 Shivam Punia EE
UG201111035 Sudhanshu Singh EE
UG201111036 Sunil Kumar EE
UG201111037 Vadakattu Sreeja EE
UG201111038 Vineet Kumar EE
UG201111039 Voruganti Surya Teja EE
UG201112001 Alvin Roy Aliath ME
UG201112002 Ankit Aggarwal ME
UG201112003 Ashutosh Mittal ME
UG201112004 Ashutosh Vishwakarma ME
UG201112005 Atishay Jain ME
UG201112007 Chetan Regar ME
UG201112008 Chilakamarri Satya Ranga Prasanth ME
UG201112009 Deep Kumar ME
UG201112010 Deshraj Meena ME
UG201112011 Devesh Singh ME
UG201112012 Dheeraj ME
UG201112013 Gajanand Saini ME
UG201112014 Gautam Kumar ME
UG201112015 Harsh Kumar Karmveer ME
UG201112016 Harshit Srivastava ME
UG201112017 Himanshu Sahu ME
UG201112018 Kishan Sharma ME
UG201112019 Kothapally Mounish ME
UG201112020 Kunal Vishnu Paraswani ME
UG201112021 Kundan Singh Meena ME
UG201112022 Maninder Singh ME
UG201112023 Manish Sachdeva ME
UG201112024 Mohit Dadhich ME
UG201112025 Mukul Kumar Gupta ME
UG201112026 Navneet Kumar Yadav ME
UG201112027 Neeraj Kumar ME
UG201112028 Rahul Sathya Babu ME
UG201112029 Sagar Anand Ramgare ME
UG201112030 Sandeep Shankarrao Hatte ME
UG201112031 Sanket Kinage ME

UG201112032 Shravan Mishra ME
UG201112033 Siddee Meena ME
UG201112035 Smriti Jain ME
UG201112036 Tagde Prateek Prakash ME
UG201112037 Vaidya Kedar Sanjay ME
UG201112038 Vikash ME
UG201112039 Wins Goyal ME
UG201113001 Arvind Pandey SS
UG201113002 Abhishek Singh SS
UG201113003 Ajay Sunarthi SS
UG201113004 Akhil Arora SS
UG201113005 Aniruddh Ramrakhyani SS
UG201113006 Ankit Singh SS
UG201113007 Arpit Agarwal SS
UG201113008 Atharv S Ghaisas SS
UG201113010 Desidi Siva Prakash SS
UG201113011 Dhiraj Bhatt SS
UG201113012 Divya Grover SS
UG201113013 Gurjot Singh SS
UG201113014 Himanshu Shukla SS
UG201113015 Jaswant SS
UG201113016 Jitendra Kumar Meena SS
UG201113017 Kakkirala Anuroop SS
UG201113018 Kowlagi Sudhendra Narayan SS
UG201113019 Krati Saxena SS
UG201113020 Kusum Lata Meena SS
UG201113023 Manthani Tejaswi SS
UG201113024 Mohamed Rehan Mohamed Sagheer SS
UG201113025 Neelesh Dwivedi SS
UG201113026 Neha Singh Chauhan SS
UG201113028 Pratik Kumar SS
UG201113029 Rahul Kumar SS
UG201113030 Raj Rohit Jalem SS
UG201113032 Rishabh Jain SS
UG201113033 Sankha Narayan Guria SS
UG201113036 Shinde Sahil Anil SS
UG201113037 Tavish Garg SS
UG201113039 Vinnakota Sai Rakshit SS

Financial Brief
The MHRD has released a sum of `6,622.30 Lakhs as Grant-in-Aid under 
Normal Plan Head and `1,854.58 Lakh as opening balance as on 01-04-2011. 
The internal income of the Institute was `551.58 Lakh. The total Plan 
expenditure during the year was `3,513.94 Lakhs (Recurring `1,493.95 Lakh 
and Non-Recurring `2,069.00 Lakh).