SOURCE_PDF: 78f724eb3e9f_vlsifaq-638887974798919698.pdf

FAQs for an Executive M.Tech. in Intelligent VLSI Systems
(for working professionals)
2022 - 2023 onwards | EE, IIT Jodhpur
Q1. Does an Executive M.Tech. in Intelligent VLSI Systems from IIT Jodhpur hold
equal value as a Full-time M.Tech. from IIT Jodhpur?
Answer: Yes in terms of learning outcomes
Q2. After completing the program, does a student get IIT Jodhpur Alumni Status?
Answer: Yes
Q3. Do students of this program also get campus placements?
Answer: No, since this is a program for working professionals.
Q4. What will be the syllabus of the written exam?
Answer: Fundamentals of programming, basics of electronics and circuit theory, digital
electronics, basic mathematics
Q5. What is the fee to be paid?
Answer: Rs. 65,000 per semester
Q6.What is the minimum attendance percentage required?
Answer: As per the institute policy.
Q7. After the completion of the course, will there be any convocation?
Answer: Yes
Q8. What will be the duration of course?
Answer: Minimum 3 years.
Q9. What are the courses that will be taught? Will these courses be taught by IITJ
faculties?
Answer: Please visit the following website for a tentative list of courses under Executive
M.Tech. IVS
Courses will be taught by IITJ faculty members. Some sessions in courses sometimes
full courses are offered by domain experts from other reputed institutes and industries.
Q10. Can I opt for elective courses? What elective courses are offered in this
program?

Answer: Please visit the following website for a list of electives which may be offered as
part of this programme:
Q11. Will I be eligible for a PhD Admission after completing this MTech course?
Answer: Yes
Q12. Is there any scholarship available for this program?
Answer: No
Q13: I have a payment related query. Whom shall I contact?
Answer: Please contact : oa_automation@iitj.ac.in
Q14: I have a related query to Executive M.Tech. IVS . Whom shall I contact?
Answer: You may write to office of EE: office_ee@iitj.ac.in
Q15. If after two semesters I need a gap due to personal reasons or something
else can I shift my next semester ?
Answer: Yes, the program is designed to allow candidates to choose their pace. You
may have a look into PG regulations for more details.
Q16. What will be the difference between a regular Mtech IVS Program &
Executive Mtech IVS program?
Answer: The mode of teaching (Online vs Classroom teaching). The syllabus and credit
requirements will be the same. Further, the duration of the program is different. This is
because the executive program is for working professionals who cannot commit the
same/similar work hours as our full-time students.
Q17. As it's an Executive Mtech Program, So If for some reason I leave the Job is
it going to affect this Program if I leave my job?
Answer: No. You can still continue this program, along with NOC from the new
employer.
Q18. I have a query regarding the total time period of the program. How many
semesters one has to complete bare minimum to get the mtech.
Answer: This is an Executive (Part-time) program. However, you would need a minimum
6 semesters to finish the program.
Q19. Can Internship be shown as work experience?
Answer: No.

Q20. Can the degree certificate be submitted for government jobs?
Answer: Yes
Q21. I am interested in pursuing this program. However, I would like to know the
syllabus and/or course content before signing up for the same.
Answer: Please visit
Q22. I have done my graduation/AMIE from The Institution of Engineers (IE
INDIA). Is that allowed for admission?
Answer: Yes.
Q23. Will hostel accommodation be provided for outstation candidates from
different states?
Answer: During campus visit in contact hours, paid accommodation may be made
available subject to availability.
Q24. I am from Computer Science and Engineering. Will I be able to cope up with
the Intelligent VLSI Systems program? What is the syllabus? What would be the
extent of it ?
Answer: Basic knowledge of digital and analog electronics is required. Also, basic
knowledge of programming languages like C/C++ will help in developing skills toward
hardware description languages like Verilog, VHDL, SystemC.
Q 25. What if I plan to discontinue the program after completing a few courses.
Answer: You will be given a course completion certificate upon request for the courses
which you would have completed.
Q26. Would the outcome of the course be suited for people who want to develop
hardware related businesses ? Would this help someone in pursuing a career in
tech companies on the business side or is it suited for people who want to
pursue a career in the technical and programming areas ?
Answer: The syllabus is more inclined towards the technology side focusing mainly on
VLSI Systems and its applications.
Q27. How rigorous is this course and how many hours of studying and project
work beyond lecture time would it need every week/month approximately ?
Answer: A unit of credit equates to three hours of student work per week. That means if
you register for 10 credits, you are expected to work 30 hours a week including 10

hours of lectures. For more detail information, you may have a look into PG regulations:
https://iitj.ac.in/uploaded_docs/Regulation/Academic_Regulations_Final_03_09_2019.p
df
Q28. Tell me a tentative plan of credit selection so that I can complete this
program in three years.
Answer:
Semester - 1 : 11 credits (including1 non-graded credits)
Semester - 2 : 10 credits (including 1 non-graded credits)
Semester - 3 : 10 credits (including 1 non-graded credits)
Semester - 4 : 10 credits(including 1 non-graded credits, 4 credits of project)
Semester - 5 : 11 credits (including 4 credits of project)
Semester - 6 : 10 credits (project)
—------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total
: 62 credits
If you plan to complete it at a slow pace, say in 4 years by taking lesser credits per
semester, then that will be allowed from semester - 2.
Q29. How many lectures per course per semester will be there?
Answer: 42 hours of lectures per course per semester.
Q30. How long is a typical semester?
Answer: Around 4 months.
Q31. What are the other documents required for admission?
Answer: A selected applicant will need to submit a no objection certificate from the
current employer (only if currently employed), a physical fitness certificate, and a
character certificate by either the current employer or a gazetted officer. These
documents are required only at the time of admission and not at the time of application.
The formats for these documents will be sent to the selected candidates.
Q32. Can I do MTech in IITJ while doing job?
Answer: Yes, you can pursue MTech in IITJ while doing a job as IITJ offers a special
part time Executive MTech course for working professionals.