SOURCE_PDF: 7a95b66823f8_Management-Development-Program-638821450630155638.pdf

DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION IN HEALTH
AN IMPLEMENTATION PRI CARE SYSTEMS:
MER
MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM

Leaders are increasingly required to navigate Digitalization of Healthcare Systems. The complex nature of these journeys
requires a ready understanding of the diverse disciplines that form the moving parts of digital health. The immersive 2.5-
day Management Development Program (MDP) on Digital Health Transformation, jointly organized by IIT Jodhpur
and Libra Social Research Foundation, provides a strategic overview tailored for decision-makers. This program offers
essential insights and practical knowledge for making effective digital health decisions. Participants will engage in
comprehensive sessions and receive expert guidance aimed at enhancing their expertise. Though concise, the program
equips leaders with the tools to drive impactful changes in healthcare.
PROGRAM OVERVIEW
The goal of the MDP is
To provide a comprehensive understanding of various challenges and opportunities associated with digital health
transformation. 
To unravel the key factors essential for building the digital health transformation roadmap and architecture. 
To provide an overview for effective mapping of the digital health technologies and processes across the organization. 
To help in developing suitable decision framework and analytics for decision making at various levels
OBJECTIVE
The MDP is specifically designed for high-level decision-makers within the healthcare sector. This includes government
administrators at national, state, and district levels, as well as CxOs and senior management from hospitals, health
insurance companies, MedTech, and HealthTech firms. The program aims to equip participants with the strategic
knowledge and skills necessary to lead digital health initiatives and innovations within their organizations. By addressing
the needs of key leaders, the MDP fosters a culture of excellence and forward-thinking in the healthcare industry.
AUDIENCE
TOPICS TO BE COVERED
Multiverse of Indian healthcare system
Overview of digital transformation in healthcare
Fundamentals of information technology for digital transformation in healthcare
Healthcare project implementation: Practices and standards
The technological perspective of managing ‘product’, ‘vendors’, and ‘projects’ in digital healthcare
Requirement testing and dashboard managing
Deep dive into digital health standard: Provider’s perspective, payer’s perspective, and product manufacture’s perspective
Technology insight into digital health applications: HIS, EMR, LIS, RIS, PBM, and claim management
Impact of digitalization on public health
Data privacy and data security in digital health
Precision medicine, integrative medicine, and participatory medicine in the era of digital health
Evolving technology landscape in digital health: Challenges and opportunities

KEY RESOURCE PERSONS
Dr. Deepak Saxena
Dr. Saxena is the Head of the School of Management and Entrepreneurship at IIT Jodhpur and
he is recognized for his work in Enterprise Systems (on-premise and cloud-based), digital
transformation, and AI ethics. He has extensive experience in industry collaboration and
consulting. He is also the Director for the MBA Technology Executive Program.
Dr Pankaj Gupta
Dr. Gupta is a globally recognised HealthTech, MedTech, InsurTech, Digital Innovation leader. Dr.
Gupta has over 2 decades of healthcare industry experience which enabled process improvements, IT
cost reduction, organization change management, and business transformation through
implementation of Healthcare-IT solutions for Hospitals, Life-sciences and Pharma companies. Dr.
Gupta was Health Innovator in Residence @The International Centre for Health Innovation,
Richard Ivey. Dr Gupta is presently an volunteer advisor to NHA and ABDM.
Dr. Alok Ranjan
Dr. Ranjan is the Head of the school of Liberal Arts at IIT Jodhpur with expertise in public health,
health economics, and health systems. His research focuses on improving healthcare access and
efficiency, particularly in resource-constrained settings. He utilizes quantitative methods to analyse
health policies and outcomes.
Ms. Seema Pandey
Ms. Pandey is a Healthcare IT Strategist with over 27 years of experience in the industry working
with payors, providers, and public health organizations across the globe. She is passionate about
Digital Health and its role in creating better experiences for providers, health workers, patients, and
their families. She has led several digital transformation initiatives in the areas of Chronic Disease
Management, Healthcare Information Exchanges, Digital Health Apps, and more.
EXPECTED BENEFIT
Participants of the MDP will gain significant benefits aligned to their roles. Government administrators will develop
skills in policy formulation, resource allocation, and the implementation of digital health initiatives. CxOs and senior
management will enhance their operational efficiency, navigate regulatory landscapes, and achieve a competitive edge.
The program also provides enhanced networking opportunities, strategic leadership improvements, and the ability to
drive innovation within their organizations. The MDP will help the high-level decision-makers to maximize their impact
on the healthcare ecosystem, fostering meaningful collaborations and real-world applications.
Prof. Mayank Vatsa
Prof. Vatsa is a Professor of Computer Science at IIT Jodhpur. He is a Swarnajayanti Fellow and
Fellow of IEEE, IAPR, AAIA. His expertise spans biometrics, image processing, and machine
learning. His work includes application of machine learning to various domains of digital health,
specifically, research related to children's nutritional status assessment. He has also worked on
projects related to Biometric standards for e-governance applications.

Dr Rajesh Kumar Gupta
Dr. Gupta is an accomplished healthcare management professional with 22+ years of expertise in
digital transformation, hospital operations, and innovation in healthcare IT. He has spent significant
time in leadership roles in operationalizing hospitals, digital health strategy, product strategy, and pre-
launch operations. He has served as Chief Innovations Officer, Taiba Hospital, Kuwait, VP of Clinical
Transformation at MyHealthcare, GM of IT & Operations, Medanta, Principal Consultant and Lead
at VistA EMR implementation at Max Healthcare and the Co-Founder of TrioTree Technologies.
Dr. Ramachandran Balaji
Dr. Balaji has over 2 decades of experience in clinical practice, hospital management, clinical
research and healthcare. He has an MD in Family Medicine as well as postgraduate academic
qualifications in technology management. Has played multiple CxO roles – including CMIO and
CIO of HCG Group of Hospitals and Narayana Health Bangalore and GM-IT role for Parkway
Hospital Singapore in the past. He has been associated with leading the development and
implementation of innovative and cutting edge clinical information systems and clinical decision
support systems for a number of hospitals in Singapore. This included working with Health
Informatics Standards such as HL7, ICD9,ICD9 CM, ICD10, SNOMED, LOINC, DICOM, Good
European Health Record and others. He has also ideated a number of solutions in Infosys.
Dr. Das is an Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at IIT
Jodhpur. He has been awarded the Early Career Research(ECR) Award and BRICS Young Scientist
Award from Science & Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology,
Govt. of India. His research interests include areas such as Internet of Things (IoT) security, and
blockchain technology.
Prof. Mukerji is a Professor in the Department of Bioscience and Bioengineering at IIT Jodhpur. She
is a recipient of Bhatnagar award. Her research focuses on human genome variations and their impact
on health and disease. Notably, she pioneered "Ayurgenomics," integrating Ayurvedic principles with
genomics for personalized medicine. Her work includes developing methods for identifying
biomarkers to predict disease susceptibility and understanding human phenotypes. She has also
contributed to the Indian Genome Variation Consortium. Her research intersects with digital health
through the application of genomics to create frameworks for precision health and medicine.
Prof. Mitali Mukerji
Dr. Debasis Das
Dr. Angshuman Paul
Dr. Paul is a faculty of department of computer science and engineering at IIT Jodhpur. He is an expert
of in medical image analysis, machine learning, and computer vision. His research explores advanced
techniques for image segmentation and classification, with applications in disease diagnosis and
treatment planning. He has made significant contribution in digital health especially in digital
diagnostics.
And many more from Academia and Industries!!

IMPORTANT DATES
Dr. Manukanchan
Dr. Indranil Banerjee
Dr. Angshuman Paul
Dr. Palash Das
Dr. Suman Dakha
Dr. Rajyalakshmi Garaga
Dr. Jaiveer Singh
Dr. Dweepoboti Brahma
Dr. Bikash Santra
Mr. Ashwani Kumar Gupta
Dr. Sucharita Dey
Dr. Pankaj Gupta
Email: mdp2025iitj@gmail.com
website: https://iitj.ac.in/cdh/
Phone no: 02912801214
Dr. Deepak Kumar Saxena, 
Dr. Pankaj Gupta, 
Dr. Indranil Banerjee
Last date of online registration: 11 May 2025
th
Last date of notification of acceptance of registration: 15th May, 2025
Program start date: 5th June, 2025
Program end date: 7th June, 2025
Program Registration
The registration should be completed through the online link provided below before the registration deadline. Payment
of registration fees is required for the completion of the registration process. For eligible applicants, confirmation of
registration will be provided on first-cum-first serve basis. In the case of cancellation of the program, the
participants/sponsoring organization will get a full refund by next 45 days from the date of notification of cancellation.
No refund will be made if the registered participants fail to attend the program. Applicants are requested to make travel
plans only after receiving the confirmation of registration(s).
Registration Link: 
https://forms.eduqfix.com/iitcep/add
EXECUTIVE MEMBERS
CONTACTS
ORGANIZING COMMITTEE
Chief Patron
Professor Avinash Kumar Agarwal
Director, Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
PROGRAM VENUE
IIT Jodhpur Campus
Rs. 20000.00 for individual (Non-residential) plus GST @ 18% or taxes as applicable as per the Govt. of India
guidelines. The fees need to be paid in advance. The fee includes the cost of tuition, course material, lunch and high-tea
for three days. For group registration (5 person or more), the group will get 15% discount in the total registration fees.
Account details is mentioned below. 
Participants are requested to arrange their accommodation as per their convenience and preference. Further, a list of
hotels will also be shared with the participants where they can get the accommodation at discounted rate.
At the end the program, participants will receive a Certificate of Participation from IIT Jodhpur.
Programme Fee
Certificate
The program is designed as a classroom-based program. It will have a blend of in-person classroom lecture, industry
insight, case discussion, experience sharing and extensive Q&A sessions.
Pedagogy
Dr. Alok Ranjan
Dr. Deepak Kumar Saxena

IIT Jodhpur, established in 2008, is an institute of national importance committed to advancing higher education
and research in India and abroad. Situated on a sprawling 852-acre campus, it emphasizes a multidisciplinary
approach for technological advancement and holistic academic growth of its student and researchers. The
Institute is known for its focus on cutting-edge research and innovation-driven academic programs. IIT Jodhpur
offers a wide range of undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral programs in engineering, sciences, technology,
liberal arts and management. Researchers at IIT Jodhpur are actively involved in cutting-edge multidisciplinary
and trans-disciplinary research and contributing significantly to the various national missions. The Institute has
already made its mark in various advanced research domains such as artificial intelligence, Sustainable
engineering, Medical Technology, Nano technology, Energy Research, Materials Engineering etc. The Institute is
also having the school of management and entrepreneurship which is committed towards bridging the gap
between technology and management. IIT Jodhpur has recently received the prestigious Grand Jury Award in the
Government Institute Category at the CII Annual Summit on Technology, Intellectual Property, and Industry-
Academia Partnership.
The Centre for Digital Health at IIT Jodhpur is the first centre of its kind in Rajasthan and adjacent states. The
Centre is focused on capacity building in Digital Health technology and management, research and Innovation for
affordable, adoptable, sustainable, and disruptive technologies in digital health, and developing open-source
participatory framework in digital health for open innovation and equitable access to healthcare. A number of
globally renowned faculties across different disciplines working in the domain of digital health are engaged in the
academic and research activities of the centre. 
The centre is committed to contribute to the development of the digital health infrastructure of the State of
Rajasthan and the nation and make healthcare equitable. The initiatives of the centre are well aligned with ABDM,
National Digital Health Mission, ‘Make in India’, UN SDG 2030, and WHO Global Initiative for Digital Health.
IIT JODHPUR
CENTRE FOR DIGITAL HEALTH, IIT JODHPUR
LIBRA SOCIAL RESEARCH FOUNDATION
It also stewards the Libra Opensource Healthcare Community for people working
in Healthcare Ecosystem across Health, Wellness, Pharma, Lifesciences, Health
Insurance, Medical Devices, HealthTech, eHealth, mHealth, EHR, Hospital Info
System (HIS), PRM, HC SMAC, AI, ML, HC IoT. Libra Social Research
Foundation is a knowledge partner to IIT-Jodhpur in order to build capacity in
Digital Health, Innovations Ecosystems, Digital Public Goods and Research.
Social Media Handle: 
https://www.facebook.com/IITJOfficial/
https://x.com/iitjodhpur
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCFfCylvEDIB1IH4GaRVRyLA
https://www.linkedin.com/school/iitjodhpur/posts/?feedView=all
Libra Social Research Foundation , is a Not-for-Profit organization, that works at the convergence of
Healthcare, Education, and Technology to ensure Health Equity at the Bottom of the Pyramid. Founders and
members of the organization have globally proven experience in transformative approaches, through multi-
decade global experiences in primary and secondary research, design thinking, technology architecture, fostering
innovation, and building capacities across large ecosystems.