SOURCE_PDF: 7ac83ad93d1b_Title-and-nature-of-the-record--manual--instruction.-1-638779946127142407.pdf

Norms for Research & Development
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Norms for Research & Development Projects
Page 2 of 24
1. PREMBLE
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur (IITJ) facilitates its students, staff members and faculty
members to undertake:
1. research and development (R&D) activities; and 
2. technology transfer and continuing education programs;
thereby contributing to national and international research needs. Figure 1 shows the organizational 
structure to steer these R&D activities.
Board of Governors
Director
Coordinator (R&D)
R&D Committee
Office of R&D
Project Management 
 Stores & Purchase Accounts Establishment
Figure 1: Administrative structure to administer R&D Activities at IIT Jodhpur
2. OFFICE OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Office of Research & Development is set up to provide specialized administrative and managerial
support for the operation of Sponsored Research Projects, Consultancy Projects and other R&D related 
activities of the Institute. The Office of R&D facilitates interaction with national and international agencies 
supporting research & development. Also, it promotes academia-industry interactions and collaboration 
with larges R&D laboratories, and liaises between Institute and funding agencies. Further, it supports faculty 
members in filing of patents and documenting IPR generated through research activity of the Institute. 
 
2.1 Functions 
(a) Project Management 
 
The Office supports following project management activities:
(1) Submitting the Proposals: The proposals seeking funding for undertaking sponsored,
consultancy or outreach activities are routed through the Office. The request of the PI is 
duly forwarded to the Coordinator of the Center with which the Faculty Member is 
associated, Coordinator (Laboratories) to ensure that sufficient resources are available, and 
to the Coordinator (R&D) to ensure that all administrative matters are examined.
(2) Registering the Project: When a project is sanctioned by a funding agency or industry, a new
project registration form is filled by the faculty member and submitted along with the 
sanction letter, agreement, MoU and proposal. On registration, a unique project account 
number is assigned and budget heads are earmarked based on the approval of funding 
agency along with the respective amounts sanctioned. The project is made operational on 
receipt of the grant in the form of cheque or bank transfer.
(3) Operating the Project: The PI and Co-PI have the authority to expend from the project
account, subject to the approval, as per the delegation of the financial powers of the 
Institute. The expenditure should not exceed the sanctioned amount for the respective

Norms for Research & Development Projects
Page 3 of 24
budget heads. Re-appropriation of funds between various budgets heads is permitted only 
with the prior approval of the funding agency. When such an approval is available from the 
funding agency, the PI may request for the re-appropriation of funds along with the 
approval of the funding agency.
(4) Submission of Progress Reports and other deliverables: The PI is responsible to the funding
agency for the deliverables of the project and timely submission of various reports.
(5) Accounts and Auditing of Funds: A statement of accounts would be made available to the PI
on request. The accounts of the Office of R&D are audited annually by CAG, Jaipur.
(6) Utilization Certificate: The Utilization Certificate (UC) of a registered project is issued at the
request of the PI after auditing of all expenditures incurred in the project. The utilization 
certificate of individual project is prepared based on the audited statements. This may be 
sent to the funding agency by the PI. The invoice seeking grant-in-aid or funds will be issued 
by the Office on request of PI. The PI is responsible for sending the invoice or grant-in-aid 
bills to the funding agency as per the requirement of project.
(7) Project Extension: The duration of the project may extend on submission of letter stating
the same from the funding agency.
(8) Project Closer and Completion Report: The PI is responsible for submitting the project
completion report to the funding agency. The Office will close the project account on 
submission of acceptance certificate from the funding agency for closing the project. At the 
time of closing the project, unutilized fund, if any, will be returned to the funding agency. In 
consultancy projects, the balance amount can be utilized according to approved norms.
(b) Stores and Purchase 
 
All purchases under a project need to be made as per the norms of the Institute. Items purchased
using the project funds are property of the Institute, and shall be used solely for project purposes during the 
term of the Project. On closure of the project, they are the property of the Institute, unless there is a 
specific provision or requirement of returning the same to the funding agency. Consequently, each such 
item will be recorded in the Assets Register of the Office of Stores and Purchase. The equipment may be 
used for other activities after the term of the project, with the approval of the Director. 
 
(c) Accounts 
 
The Office will undertake the following activities related to project fund operation and
(1) Preparation of receipt / payment vouchers; 
(2) Disbursement of salary of project staff members; 
(3) Generation of SR (system entry); 
(4) Issuance of cheques; 
(5) Reconciliation of cheque & cash ledgers on daily basis; 
(6) Payments of LC and TT; 
(7) Reconciliation of Bank statements on monthly basis; 
(8) Deposition of taxes as income, service or others to Government agencies; 
(9) Receipt and payment accounts; 
(10) 
 Investment of R&D funds and monitoring of the same; and
(11) 
 Preparation of annual accounts.
(d) Establishment 
 
The Office undertakes two primary tasks, namely a appointment of project staff members, and
maintenance of their personal file, leave records, HRA, contract agreements, etc. In particular, the activities 
undertaken by the office are:
(1) Seeking approval of Draft Advertisement and Selection Committee proposed by PI

Norms for Research & Development Projects
Page 4 of 24
(i) PI will send a draft advertisement along with a proposed Selection Committee to
the Office for approval against the vacant post; and
(ii) After approval, the advertisement will be published by the Office on the Institute
(2) Screening applications
(i) The PI will fix the meeting for screening of the applications received. After
screening, the PI will submit to the Office the report along with the proposed 
schedule of the interview; and
(ii) The Office will issue the call letter to the applicants called for the interview.
(3) Interview of the applicants
(i) The PI will arrange the Selection Committee meeting on the scheduled date and
time, and conduct the interview; and
(ii) After interview, the PI will submit to the office the Report of the Selection
Committee along with applications of recommended candidate(s).
(4) Appointment of the project Staff Member
(i) After scrutiny of the Report of the Selection Committee, the Office will submit the
recommendation to the Director for approval; and
(ii) After Director’s approval, the appointment letter will be issued by the Office.
(5) Joining of Project Staff Member and Signing of Contract Agreement
(i) Selected candidate(s) will report to the PI for joining the duties. The PI will submit
the Joining Report to the Office;
(ii) After acceptance of the Joining Report, a unique Project Personnel File Number is
assigned and a personal file will be opened at the Office; and
(iii) Contract agreement will be signed by the Project Staff Member.
3. COORDINATOR (RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT)
A faculty member belonging to the disciplines of Engineering or Science will be appointed by the
Director as Coordinator (R&D). The Coordinator (R&D) will steer the activities of the Office of R&D.
4. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
The Research & Development (R&D) Committee will be proposed by Coordinator (R&D) and
approved by the Director. It consists of:
(a) Coordinator (R&D) as Chairman; 
(b) Coordinator of each center; and 
(c) Coordinator (Laboratories).
It has the mandate to:
(a) Encourage faculty members to write research proposals to national and international
funding agencies;
(b) Propose policies related to conduct of R&D Projects at the Institute; 
(c) Coordinate the signing of Memoranda of Understating (MoU) and Non-Disclosure
Agreements (NDA) with others organizations, universities and institutes;
(d) Streamline the functions of the Office of R&D and guide it from time to time; 
(e) Ensure that all finances are handled as per the norms of funding agency, IIT Jodhpur and
Government of India, and the utilization certificates are submitted in a timely manner to the 
funding agencies;
(f) Ensure all purchase related items are routed through the office of Stores & Purchase; and 
(g) Interface with the PI to do the needed communication with the funding agencies.

Norms for Research & Development Projects
Page 5 of 24
5. PROJECT INVESTIGATOR 
 
Each project will have a Project Investigator (PI), who is a faculty member in the regular service of
the Institute or on contract service (with scale). Faculty members on visiting, guest or contract (on fixed 
salary) cannot be a PI of any project. The Director may appoint a Group ‘A’ Officer as a PI of projects that are 
primarily meant to steer specific activities of the Institute.
5.1 The PI will be solely responsible for:
(a) Formulating project proposals, which may include;
(i) 
Planning the scope of the work to be done;
(ii) 
Estimating cost involved in achieving the objectives of the project; and
(iii) 
Identifying Co-Investigators, if required, who are faculty member(s) of the Institute.
(b) Coordinating and executing the work; 
(c) Handling all communications with the funding agency; 
(d) Submitting intermediate and final reports to funding agencies according to the project
(e) Ensuring that all reports bear the name of the PI and his/her signatures, and the name(s) of
the other Investigator(s) who participated in the project;
(f) Signing the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) or Agreements with the funding
agency , if required, after the approval of the Director; and
(g) Making recommendations to Director regarding honoraria to be paid to faculty members,
staff members and students, if applicable.
5.2 While making an estimate of the funds required for a project, the following budgets heads should
be taken into account:
(a) Salaries of Project Staff Members and Ph.D. students; 
(b) Equipment; 
(c) Consumables; 
(d) Contingency; 
(e) Travel (domestic and international); 
(f) Others (if any); and 
(g) Overhead.
While estimating the budget required under salary head, the PI has to identify the positions required 
depending on the nature of research. The proposal once approved by the funding agency for specific 
category of staff members, their emoluments cannot be changed or altered. In case the funding agency 
has provided the consolidated fund under salary head, then positions and emoluments as per the 
Institute’s norms will be applicable for R&D staff member appointment.
In case any equipment is to be returned to the funding agency / organization after completion of the 
project, the same should be clearly spelled out explicitly in the project proposal, supported by written 
communication from the funding agency to this effect.
5.3 The PI can co-opt other faculty members of the Institute as Investigators. The Director may permit,
at the request of the PI, a Group A Officer of the Institute as Co-PI of a project.
5.4 The PI will prepare research project proposal in conformity with:
(a) designation and emoluments rates for project staff members, commensurate with the
qualification and experience specified by the funding agency or the Institute;
(b) provision for Institute Overhead Charges as per the norms of the Institute; 
(c) other guidelines issued by the funding agency; and 
(d) applicable Rules, Regulations & Statutes of the Institute.
5.5 The PI shall be responsible to get project work completed satisfactorily within the sanctioned grant
and duration.

Norms for Research & Development Projects
Page 6 of 24
5.6 The PI shall ensure that the head-wise expenditure does not exceed the budgetary allocation
as sanctioned by funding agency.
5.7 In case a PI leaves the Institute, retires, proceeds on leave, or is unavailable for some reason, the
Director, on the recommendation of the Coordinator (R&D), on the request of PI, OR on the 
request of the Coordinator of the concerned Center, will appoint a new PI, who will assume the 
powers and responsibilities of the PI. The new PI will need to furnish an undertaking for 
completion the project with the remaining funds within the duration specified by the funding 
agency.
5.8 Project file will be closed with the submission of final project report and final settlement of
6. TYPES OF PROJECTS
The Institute encourages faculty members to seek external funds from Government and non-
government agencies to pursue R&D activities in areas of their competence. The Office of R&D administers 
these projects in keeping with the guidelines agreed upon with the funding agencies. Currently, the Office 
administers four types of R&D projects, namely: 
(a) Sponsored Research Projects; 
(b) Consultancy Projects; 
(c) Outreach Projects; and 
(d) Routine Testing Projects. 
In addition, it administers four others projects based on funding from Grant in Aid from MHRD, namely 
(a) Seed Grant; 
(b) Professional Development Account (PDA); and 
(c) Institute Projects. 
 
6.1. SPONSORED RESEARCH PROJECTS
Individual or a group of faculty members of the Institute can write research proposal to seek
competitive grants from extra-mural research funding agencies in India or abroad. Faculty members may 
approach various national (e.g., DST, DBT, CSIR, BRNS, ARDB, DRDO, and ISRO) or international (e.g., 
bilateral government agencies, such as Indo-Japan and Indo-Russian agencies) funding agencies and 
industries for a sponsored research project. The PI will adhere to the funding agency norms alongside 
complying with the Institute term and conditions.
In specific instances, the Office also administers the Institute Collaborative Projects, which are
projects seeking fund simultaneously from the funding agency and Institute. The project proposal should 
bifurcate clearly the money requested from Institute and the funding agency. The PI should obtain due 
approval of the Director before indicating such internal financial support to external agencies.
Sponsored research project proposals may be submitted as per the format of the respective funding
agencies. Generally, these formats are available on the websites of the agencies. The following points 
should be considered while writing the proposal:
1. The Institute Overhead shall be 25% of the total grant being sought from the agency. Any
departure from the above should be duly notified to and approval sought from the Director 
before sending such a proposal. In special cases on the recommendation of the R&D 
committee, the Director can give partial waiver of the Overhead.
2. The Calculation of Institute Overhead shall be as per table 1.

A. Recurring 0.75 X
B. Equipment
C. Others
D. Institute Overhead 0.25 X
Total Project Cost X
Total
Overhead
received Share for various units of the Institute
Institute Professional Development Account (PDA)
of Faculty Member Office of R&D
Norms for Research & Development Projects
Page 7 of 24
Table1: Calculation of Overheads of on total Project cost
The Overhead so collected will be utilised as per table 2.
3. The government funding agencies (like DST, DBT, CSIR, BRNS, ARDB, DRDO, and ISRO) have their
own overhead norms. Institute overhead will be charged as per the norms of government 
funding agency. No overhead will be charged from any project funded by the Ministry of 
Human Resource Development (MHRD).
4. Endorsement certificate shall be printed on Institute letterhead, and shall be signed by PI,
Coordinator (R&D) and the Director.
5. Both soft and hard copies of the proposal shall be submitted to Office of R&D for records,
before sending the same to the funding agencies.
6. The research project proposal must contain a clear statement of yearly expenditure under
different heads. This proposed scheduled expenditure and manpower mentioned in proposal 
shall be adhered to by the PI. Any deviation from the stated head needs prior approval of 
sponsoring agency. In case, where the funding agency revises the budget under the different 
heads, the budget approved by the funding agency shall be binding.
7. The IPs and Patents generated during the sponsored project should be shared by the funding
agency and IIT Jodhpur. The proposal should clarify this. In the absence of this, guidelines 
developed by the IIT Jodhpur shall be binding on both the parties.
8. When a project is approved by the funding agency, a new project account shall be opened with
the Office of R&D for its operation and monitoring. Further,
8.1 
Utilization certificate should be submitted by PI on time to the sponsoring agency.
8.2 
After completion of the project, final technical report should be submitted to the 
funding agency, with a copy to the R&D office for record;
8.3 
After submission of the final technical report, a completion certificate should be 
obtained from the funding agency for successful completion of the project based on 
which, the project account will be closed after settlement of all the committed 
expenditures;
8.4 
After final notification of closure from the sponsoring agency, assets generated from 
the project, shall be audited by the Office of Store & Purchase. The asset transfer, if any, 
will be facilitated by the Office of R&D;
8.5 
No honorarium or consultation fee can be charged from the sponsored research 
projects unless it was clearly mentioned in project proposal, approved and sanctioned 
by the funding agency, and agreed upon by IIT Jodhpur; and
8.6 
Institute neither charges any interest from the funding agencies in case of any delay in 
the reimbursement of expenditure or transfer of the funds pledged by the funding 
agency towards the execution of the project, nor pays any interest, if earned, on the 
grant received.
Table 2: Utilisation of Overheads collected from Sponsored Research Projects:

Norms for Research & Development Projects
Page 8 of 24
6.2. CONSULTANCY PROJECTS
Faculty members may offer technical consultancy services to governments, industries and private
individuals, based on his / her competence, acting as PI of the project. These projects should provide 
challenges to and befit the professional competence of the faculty member; else the Institute shall not 
accept to undertake the project. Further, the Institute shall not be liable in any way for the negative fallout 
of any consultancy service offered by the PI. And, the PI is advised to write clear agreements with the 
funding agencies to limit their own liability.
(a) The Institute Overhead in Consultancy Projects shall be 35% of the total amount being charged as
the fee, after deducting the Service Tax. The Service Tax on Consultancy Projects shall be as per the 
rates prevalent and decided by the Government of India. Service tax is not applicable on the 
projects, if the funds are received in foreign currency;
(b) 
 Service tax is not chargeable on equipment, where the equipment is to be returned to the funding
agency or organization after completion of the project;
(c) The total fee of the project should be paid by the funding agency to the Institute before the
commencement of the work. No payment made by the funding agency for consultancy projects 
shall be routed other than through the Institute. This means, that whenever payments are 
received, they should be received by the Institute; the Institute will do the needful to comply with 
the statutory laws and then release the honorarium to the faculty and staff members as applicable. 
The expenditure and disbursements shall be made as per the Institute norms.
(d) 
 Once a Consultancy Project is approved by the funding agency and the funds are received at the
Institute, a new project account will be opened in the Office of R&D. Each proposal must contain a 
clear statement of the honorarium or consultancy fee to be paid to the hired consultants, if any. If 
this is not written in the proposal, no consultant can be hired.
(e) 
 A completion certificate should be obtained from the funding agency after successful completion of
the project. Based on this,
(1) PIs and others involved can be paid the honorarium or consultancy fee. The total
honorarium paid to the Faculty and Staff Members of the Institute shall not exceed two-
thirds of the consultancy fee charged to the agency minus the Service Tax; and
(2) Project will be closed.
(f) After the completion of the project, a final report should be submitted to the funding agency with a
copy to Office of R&D for record.
(g) Any amount in the project may be transferred to PDA of the PI, instead of being paid honorarium. 
(h) 
 A Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA), if required, should be signed a priori between the PI and
funding agency. Also, the IPs and Patents generated during the project should be shared by the 
funding agency and IIT Jodhpur. The proposals shall clarify on this. In the absence of such a 
clarification, guidelines developed by the IIT Jodhpur shall be binding on both the parties.
(i) The fund received may be used to cover the expenses related the site visit, meetings outside the
Institute and participation in conferences within India or abroad. There is no restriction from the 
Institute on travel by air or taxi on grounds of entitlement. Actual boarding and lodging expenses 
will be paid on production of payment receipt, as per the Institute norms.
(j) The time spent by the PI on all consultancy projects together should be limited to one day per week,
on an average. Absence of PI on grounds of consultancy project from the campus should be limited 
to 30 days in a year, and not exceed 7 working days during the semester. Sufficient caution needs 
to be exercised to ensure that consultancy projects do not interfere with the normal duties of the 
faculty members.
(k) The Calculation of Overhead from Consultancy Project shall be as per Table 3.

Amount of Consultancy Fee Charged A
Service Tax (12.36% of A or as applicable) (-) B
Balance C
Institute Overhead (35% of C) (-) D
Balance E
Expenditure
(including Laboratory Development fund of Rs. 25,000, if project involves no laboratory work,
and 10% of E, if it does) (-) F
Balance for payment to persons involved G
Total Overhead
Received share for various units of the Institute
Institute Professional Development Account (PDA)
of the Faculty Members Office of R&D
Total Fee received after
deducting Service Tax Share of payments
Institute Office of R&D Participating Employees
Norms for Research & Development Projects
Page 9 of 24
Table 3: Calculation of Overheads on Total Consultancy Fee charged
The utilisation of Overheads collected from Consultancy Projects shall be as per Table 4. 
 
Table 4: Utilization of Overheads collected from Consultancy Projects
6.3. ROUTINE TESTING PROJECTS
Faculty members may undertake routine testing tasks, which are required by the Industries or
utility companies for the performance evaluation of their specific product or projects. The routine testing 
projects involve utilization of the Institute laboratory facilities. Institute does not allow to undertaking any 
certification work, unless certain facilities of the Institute are recognized by appropriate authority of the 
country for this purpose. The following points should be adhered to:
(a) Only non-specialised equipment can be used in routine testing projects; 
(b) The testing may be done at standard fee estimated by the Faculty Member, who will supervise the
testing work. Service tax at the applicable rates should be received on this source and paid to the 
Government of India. Service tax is not deducted on the fund received by the agency outside the India 
in foreign currency;
(c) Institute Overheads are not deducted on Routine Testing Projects; and 
(d) After deducting Service Tax, the balance amount shall be distributed as per the Table 5:
Table 5: Utlisation of Fee charged for Routine Testing Projects
6.4. OUTREACH PROJECTS
Faculty members can organise Conferences, Seminars, Workshop or Short-term Courses with funds
from outside agencies, after seeking due approval of the Director. The Office of R&D will facilitate the use of 
such funds received from external agencies. Faculty members should open an account in the Office of R&D, 
clearly indicating the purpose of the event being organised. If the funds are raised from the multiple funding 
agencies (e.g., governmental and non-governmental agencies), then sub-project needs to be created, under 
the umbrella of the same project account, clearly stating the expenditure heads in each sub-project.
The Institute Overhead shall be 35% of fund raised from external funding agencies. After the event
completed, utilization certificate duly issued by Office of R&D should be submitted especially to the 
governmental funding agencies. After deducting Service Tax, the balance amount shall be distributed as 
Table 6.

Total Fee received after
deducting Service Tax Share of Payments
Institute Office of R&D Participating Employees
Norms for Research & Development Projects
Page 10 of 24
Table 6: Utilisation of Fee charged for Outreach Projects.
6.5. SEED GRANT PROJECTS
The Institute supports newly joined young Faculty Members for initiating her/his research at IIT
Jodhpur, with a sum of Rs. 25 Lakhs for Faculty Members with background in Science and Technology, and 
with Rs. 5 Lakhs for Faculty Members with background in Humanities and Social Science.
(a) The new Faculty Member shall submit a Seed Grant Proposal to Office of R&D; 
(b) The Faculty Member will present the same to a Committee consisting of:
(ii) Coordinator (Faculty);
(iii) Coordinators of Centers of Energy, ICT, SS, BISS; 
(iv) Coordinator (Laboratories); and
(v) Coordinator (R&D).
(c) All Faculty Members, especially those in the domain of the proposal, are invited to the
(d) If the proposal is accepted in principle, suggestions made by the Seed Grant Proposal Review
Committee should be incorporated and the revised proposal submitted by the Faculty Member 
to the Office of R&D. On receiving the revised proposal, Coordinator (R&D) may recommend to 
the Director for approval of the Seed Grant; and
(e) After approval of the Director, a Seed Grant Project account will be opened by the Office of R&D,
clearly stating the budget utilization under different heads such as equipments, consumables and 
other necessary sections. The expenditure towards consumable and contingency shall not 
exceed 25% of the amount granted. No furniture items shall be purchased from the seed grant; 
the same will be provided by the Institute.
6.6. INSTITUTE PROJECTS
Some of activities of the Institute, such as management of hostels, healthcare services, automation,
laboratory development, and UGRI, are financially regulated Institute Projects. In administering such 
projects, the following points shall be considered:
(a) The PI of the Institute Project appointed by the Director, shall seek the budget for the financial
year from the Grant-in-aid;
(b) After the budget is approved, a new project account shall be opened in the Office of R&D; 
(c) Any purchase or procurement made under the Institute Project shall be in accordance with the
Institute norms of expenditure applicable to the Grant-in-aid;
(d) The wages of the hired manpower in Institute Projects should follow Institute norms; 
(e) The Office of R&D should provide to the Director quarterly expenditure statement of all Institute
Projects duly signed by respective PIs; and
(f) The PI of the Institute Project shall seek approval for additional budget for next session, before
the available fund is exhausted.
6.7. PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT ACCOUNT
A Professional Development Account (PDA) is created for each Faculty Member at the time of
his/her joining the Institute. Incomes in PDA are those arising from the academic and professional activities 
of the Faculty Member. The incomes that can be credited to this account include:
(a) Part of Institute Overheads from Sponsored Research Projects; 
(b) 
Remuneration from JEE, GATE, JMET and other similar examinations of the Institute;
(c) Amount transferred from Outreach Projects, if any,;

Norms for Research & Development Projects
Page 11 of 24
(d) 
Amount transferred from Consultancy Projects, if any, after meeting the expenditures; and
(e) 
Any other income with the approval of Director.
The amount credited in the PDA can be utilized only for the following purposes:
(a) Purchase of the equipment for furthering research activities of the faculty members; 
(b) 
Travel (within the country and abroad) for research related meeting and conferences;
(c) Conference related expenditures; 
(d) 
Purchase of books, journal subscriptions and professional membership;
(e) 
Teaching material and teaching aids;
(f) Expenses related to promotion of professional activities; 
(g) Recruitment of qualified Project Staff Members to assist in Research Activities; and 
(h) 
Any other expenditure with the approval of Director. 
 
The PDA will be run as a R&D Project with the Faculty Member as the PI. Any purchase using funds
of PDA shall be made in accordance with rules laid down for Sponsored Projects. Any unspent balance of 
PDA cannot be transferred to any other account or to another Institute project, when the Faculty Member is 
leaving IIT Jodhpur.
The PDA account cannot be operated by the Faculty Member, when he/she is on long leave, short
leave, leave on “Foreign Service Terms” or on extra-ordinary leave. He/she may be allowed to use the PDA 
amount, while on sabbatical leave. 
 
6.8 UTILIZATION OF THE INSTITUTE OVERHEAD AND R&D OVERHEAD 
 
The Overheads under “Institute Overhead” shall be utilised as per the needs of the Institute, and
with the approval of the Director. The “R&D Overhead” shall be utilised for both recurring and non-
recurring expenditure, including salary of the project staff, honorarium to regular staff members, travel and 
other expenditures approval by the Director. 
 
7. PROJECT OF APPOINTMENTS
The appointment of qualified temporary Project Staff Members is an important project
management activity of the Office of R&D. This section elaborates the possible appointments, procedure for 
making the appointment and salaries payable therein.
7.1 Type of Appointments
The hiring of manpower under sponsored Research Projects, Consultancy Projects and other
Projects are of 4 categories, namely:
(a) Ad-hoc Appointment: Hiring of manpower on ad-hoc basis for a maximum period of 3 months by means
of awarding a short term ad-hoc appointment against the vacant post or as one-time activity.
(b) Project Appointment: Hiring of qualified candidate(s) by giving wide publicity through press, internet,
etc., for a period beyond 3 months and extendable on yearly basis on the recommendation of PI for a 
maximum period of 5 years or till the duration of the project, whichever is earlier.
(c) Assistantship: Registered students of the Institute can be employed on projects on full-time basis during
summer and winter vacation or on part-time basis during the semester as Student Research Associate 
(SRA) / Senior Student Research Associate (SSRA) against the vacant post.
(d) Engagement of skilled, semi-skilled or unskilled personnel through Manpower Outsourcing Agency.

Norms for Research & Development Projects
Page 12 of 24
7.2 Procedure OF Appointment 
(a) Ad-hoc Appointment(s)
The PI / Co-PI can hire the services of qualified candidates on Ad-hoc basis (Informal selection)
against vacant posts for a specific work pertaining to the project up to a maximum period of 3 months. The 
request for such appointments can be submitted in the Office of R&D in prescribed format along with CV 
with all the supporting documents, like mark-sheets and experience certificates.
(b) Project Appointment(s)
The PI/Co-PI may forward a request in prescribed form for selecting persons for such appointments
against the vacant position(s). Also, the PI shall submit the qualification(s) and experience prescribed for 
the positions. The proposed qualification and experience can be higher but not lower than the norms laid 
down by the Institute or Funding Agency. A Selection Committee will be constituted, with the approval of 
the Coordinator (R&D) or Director, as the case may be.
An advertisement shall be published on the Institute website stating the required educational
qualification, experience, etc. The essential qualification mentioned by the funding agency shall be strictly 
followed. The PI can add additional qualification depending upon the requirement of the project. The 
advertisement shall mention clearly that the post is purely temporary and for specified limited period, 
strictly co-terminus with the project. 
 
The PI has two options for holding these selections: 
(a) Walk-in Test / Interview: The PI can exercise this option, if only a limited number of candidates are
expected to apply. Under this option, on-the-spot written or skill test may also be conducted to narrow 
down the number of candidates.
(b) Shortlisting followed by Written Test and / or Interview: This option can be adopted, if PI expects a
large response by candidates and prior short-listing is unavoidable.
The composition of standing Selection Committee shall be as follows:
(i) For Consultants:
(a) 
Director or his nominee 
Chairman
(b) 
Two Faculty Members from the concerned Center 
Member
(c) 
One Faculty Member from a Center other than that of the PI 
Member
(d) 
Project Investigator (PI) 
Convener
(ii) For Research and Technical Staff Members:
(a) 
Coordinator of the concerned Center 
Chairman
(b) 
One Faculty Member from the Center 
Member
(c) 
One Faculty Member from a Center other than that the PI 
Member
(d) 
Project Investigator (PI) 
Convener
(iii) For Administrative staff Members:
(a) 
Coordinator (R&D) 
Chairman
(b) 
One Faculty Member or a Group A Officer 
Member
(c) 
Project Investigator (PI) 
Convener
The following are the additional notes on the above:
(1) For the post which has been sanctioned by the funding agency, but not covered above, Director will
approve a Standing Selection Committee, on the recommendation of the Coordinator (R&D). All the 
members must be present during the interview. In case of exigency, the Convener may seek to 
replace the member unable to attend with another, in writing by the Director.
(2) The Chairman of the Selection Committee will ensure that any candidate who does not fulfill the
advertised qualification or experience is not interviewed or recommended for selection. The 
candidates appeared or appearing for final exams will not be considered qualified, if their result is 
still awaited as on the last date of receipt of application. The candidates not fulfilling the minimum

S. No. Designation Minimum Qualification Salary Range
1 Consultant Ph.D. degree with 1st Class or equivalent (in terms of
grades etc.) at the preceding degree in the
appropriate branch with a very good academic record
throughout & a minimum of 8 years Teaching,
Research or Industrial experience after Ph.D.
Or
An outstanding Engineer or M.Tech. /ME or M.Sc.
Technologist with 1st Class or equivalent in the
appropriate discipline with 10 years relevant
experience, or B. Tech. or B.E. degree or equivalent
with 12 years working experience in Industry of
repute 35,000-3,500-70,000
2 Senior Project
Scientist /
Engineer Ph.D. degree with 1st Class or equivalent at the
preceding degree in the appropriate discipline with 4
years relevant experience in the relevant area
Or
M. Tech. or M.E. degree with 1st Class or equivalent in
the appropriate discipline with 6 years experience in
relevant area
Or
B.Tech. or M.Sc. degree with 1st Class or equivalent in
the appropriate discipline with 8 years experience in
relevant area 27,000-2,700-54,000
Norms for Research & Development Projects
Page 13 of 24
advertised qualification cannot be considered even for the lower post, if such lower position has not 
been advertised.
(3) The Chairman of the Selection Committee will ensure that, all the candidates, who come to attend
the interview, are interviewed properly by the Selection Committee.
(4) The Members of the Selection Committee should dissociate themselves completely from the
process of selection, where their own close relatives are involved. No close relative of any Selection 
Committee Member should be appearing in the test/interview. In case, it is so, the concerned 
Committee Member shall opt out, and another person be appointed in his place as Member, with 
the approval of the Director.
(5) The scheduled Selection Committee meetings cannot be cancelled or rescheduled at short notice;
this will avoid inconvenience to candidates appearing in the interview, especially from outside 
Jodhpur. In case of absence of Chairman or PI due to exigency, his/her nominee may be appointed 
with the approval of the Director, to ensure smooth conduct of interviews as scheduled.
(6) The report of the Selection Committee duly recommended by the Coordinator (R&D) with
applications of candidate(s) selected and also considered for appointment under the project, shall 
be placed before the Director for approval.
(7) After, obtaining approval of the Director, the Offer of Appointment can be issued to the selected
candidate(s) by the Office of R&D.
7.3 Project Position and Salary Structure

3 Project Scientist /
Engineer Ph.D. degree with 1st Class in the appropriate
discipline
Or
M.Tech. or M.E. degree with 1st Class or equivalent in
the appropriate discipline with 3 years experience in
the relevant area
Or
B.Tech. or M.Sc. degree with 1st Class or equivalent
with 4 years experience relevant area 22,000-2,200-44,000
4 Senior Project
Associate B. Tech., B.E., MCA or M.Sc. degree with 1st Class or
equivalent in appropriate discipline with 02 years
experience in relevant area 18,000-1,800-36,000
5 Project Associate B. Tech. or B.E. or MCA or M.Sc. degree with 1st Class
or equivalent 15,000-1,500-30,000
S. No. Designation Minimum Qualification Salary Range
1 Project Technical
Officer B.Sc. or equivalent with 15 years experience in
relevant area
Or
3 year Engineering Diploma with 15 years experience
in relevant area 20,000-2,000-40,000
2 Project Technical
Supervisor B.Sc. or equivalent with 8 years experience in relevant
area
Or
3 year Engineering Diploma with 8 years experience in
relevant area 16,000-1,600-32,000
3 Project Technician B.Sc. or equivalent with 4 years experience in the
relevant area
Or
3 year Engineering Diploma with 4 years experience in
relevant area
Or
High School + ITI with 9 years experience in relevant
area 12,000-1,200-24,000
4 Senior Project
Mechanic 3 years Engineering Diploma
Or
High School + ITI with 5 years experience in relevant
area 9,000-900-18,000
5 Project Mechanic High School + ITI
Or
High School with 5 years experience in relevant area 7,000-700-14,000
Norms for Research & Development Projects
Page 14 of 24

S. No. Designation Minimum Qualification Salary Range
1 Senior Project
Manager 1st Class Post-graduate degree with 12 years
experience in relevant area
Or
CA, ICWA, CS with 5 years relevant experience of
supervisory work in a Government Office, educational
Institute or business organization of repute 25,000-2,500-50,000
2 Project Manager 1st Class Post-graduate degree with 8 years relevant
experience
Or
Graduate with 20 years relevant experience
Or
CA, ICWA or CS with 3 years relevant experience of
supervisory work in a Government Office, educational
Institute or business organization of repute 20,000-2,000-40,000
3 Deputy Project
Manager CA, ICWA or CS
Or
Post-graduate (MBA, MCA, M.Com., M. Sc. or MA)
with 5 years relevant experience
Or
Graduate (B.Sc., BA, B.Com., BBA or BCA) with 3 years
of relevant experience 16,000-1,600-32,000
4 Assistant Project
Manager Post-graduate (MBA, MCA, M.Com., M.Sc. or MA)
Or
Graduate (B.Sc., BA, B.Com, BBA or BCA) with 3 years
relevant experience 11,000-1,100-22,000
5 Project Assistant Graduate (B.Sc., BA, B.Com, BBA or BCA) 9,000-900-18,000
6 Project Attendant Intermediate 7,000-700-14,000
7 Junior Project
Attendant High school with 3 years experience 7,000-700-14,000
Norms for Research & Development Projects
Page 15 of 24

S. No. Designation Minimum Qualification Fellowship* in Rs.
1 Junior Research Fellow (JRF) M.Sc., BE, B.Tech. or B. Pharm
degree or equivalent 16,000 per month for first
two years and 18,000 per
month for subsequent
years
2 Senior Research Fellow (SRF) M.Tech., ME, M.Pharm degree or
equivalent
Or
M.Sc., B.Tech. or BE degree or
equivalent with two years relevant
experience 18,000 per month for first
two years and 20,000 per
month for subsequent
years
3 Research Associate (RA) Ph.D. or M.D
Or
M.Tech., ME or M.Pharm degree or
equivalent with two experience 22,000 per month
With three years experience 23,000 per month
With four years experience 24,000 per month
4 Post-Doctoral Fellow (PDF) Submitted the Ph.D. thesis and yet
to receive their Ph.D. degree
(provisional or otherwise) 22,000 per month
Ph.D. degree with one year
experience 23,000 per month
Ph.D. degree with two year
experience 24,000 per month
Norms for Research & Development Projects
Page 16 of 24
4. Junior Research Fellow (JRF) / Senior Research Fellow (SRF) / Research Associates (RA)

Norms for Research & Development Projects
Page 17 of 24
Others Terms and Conditions
(1) All appointments shall be on contract of one year or less, in case the project is terminated earlier. The
appointment is against the temporary project post and will not continue in any circumstances beyond 
the duration of the said project. Any subsequent contract in the project or another project will be fresh 
appointment. The appointment in the outside funded project does not give Project Staff Members any 
claim whatsoever for appointment or regularization against any regular post of the Institute.
(2) All Project Staff Members need to sign a contract agreement with Institute on Rs. 100 Non-judicial
Stamp Paper in the format available with Office of R&D at the time of the joining. Salary will be 
released after the signing of the contract agreement. In case, any Project Staff Members does not sign 
the contract agreement within 15 days from the date of joining, the appointment will stand cancelled.
(3) Salary and other allowances of the selected candidate will be fixed at the entry level of the post. But, at
the time of selection, the Selection Committee can recommend a higher start by offering a maximum 
of five increments in case of experienced candidates. The higher start from the initial level of the scale 
can be calculated duly counting the number of years of experience, offering one increment each for 
each year of service, over and above the minimum number of years required towards applicable 
experience. In case the Committee recommends fixation at higher stage within the scale, the same 
may only be given with proper justification. Recommendation for higher fixation will be entertained, 
only if the fund is available. Finally, the recommendation of the Selection Committee will reviewed by 
the Director before approval.
(4) The pay-fixation of employees retired from Government service will be fixed as per Government of
India norms.
(5) Intellectual Property Rights:
(i) 
Staff Members appointed in a project will be required to work under the supervision of the 
Project Investigator of the project. The outcome of any research under the project is the 
property of the project and is bound by the prevailing IPR Policy of the Institute and sponsors of 
the project. Any result can only be published with prior written approval of the Project 
Investigator with due acknowledgement of the sponsors of the project.
(ii) 
On leaving the service, all documents relating to the project are required to be returned to the 
Project Investigator.
(6) At the time of the extension of the service of the Project Staff Members, the PI can recommend one
increment after completion of one year service. Extension of the service and increment is admissible 
only when the project is valid and the sufficient fund is available.
(7) Extension of service can be given upto a maximum of one year at a time. The maximum length of
service for a project employee cannot exceed five years.
(8) In case of migration of a project employee from one project to another without the need for
undergoing fresh selection process, valid reasons and justification shall be submitted by the PI for such 
migration. In such cases, the Personal File Number of the Project Staff Members shall remain the same.
(9) If a person is already working or has worked earlier in any specific project of the Institute, the last pay
drawn can be taken as the basis for fixing the consolidated pay for the fresh position being appointed 
for.
(10) 
 
In case of person who retired from the Institute service, the academic qualifications can be relaxed 
commensurate with the experience and the designation with proper mapping to the designations and 
experience levels as mentioned in the above tables.

Casual Leave (CL)
for three calendar
months Total CL in a
calendar year Annual leave
(AL) per month Total AL in a
calendar year Medical leave without pay
02 days 08 days 2.5 days 30 days Maximum 30 day on
production of valid medical
certificate
Norms for Research & Development Projects
Page 18 of 24
(11) 
 
In case a PI considers upgrading a Project employee within the same project, he/she after reviewing 
performance of the employee can recommend for up-gradation without going through Selection 
Committee. But, in case of up-gradation of the employee to work in some other project, the case shall 
be put up through the Selection Committee for consideration. The up-gradation should be justifiable in 
terms of additional qualifications and experience, acquired commensurate with the position for which 
being considered.
(12) 
 
Consolidated salary offered for the project post is inclusive of Basic Pay, DA, HRA and PF benefit. But, if 
the sponsoring agency provides and is recommended by the PI, additional 20% HRA can be given to the 
Project Staff Members. Further, this is applicable, only if the concerned Project Staff Member stays 
outside the campus. The Project Staff Member shall submit the request, duly forwarded and 
recommended by PI of the project for the reimbursement of rent paid for accommodation, in the 
prescribed form as available with Office of R&D.
(13) 
 
Medical Facilities: Routine OPD medical facility for self only shall be provided at the Health Centre 
located within the Institute campus, without any reimbursement of cost of medicines. The cases of 
serious illness may be referred to the Government or Private hospital as per opinion of the medical 
authorities. Any outside referral shall not be reimbursable. A medical booklet shall be provided to each 
Project employee by the Office of R&D at the time of joining, which has to be produced to the Staff 
Members at the Health Centre when obtaining medical treatment and the same returned on 
completion of term, resignation or termination.
(14) 
 
Termination of Service: During the period of project appointment, Project Staff Members are liable to 
be terminated with or without one month’s notice or on payment of one month salary in lieu thereof. 
Likewise, Project Staff Members too can resign by giving one month notice or salary in lieu of the 
notice period.

Category Rate per hour Maximum hours per week
B. Tech. Students Rs. 60 to 100 10
M. Tech. Students Rs. 100 to 200 15
Ph.D. Students Rs. 100 to 200 20
Norms for Research & Development Projects
Page 19 of 24
(d) Assistantship to Students 
 
Registered Students of the Institute can be employed on projects on part-time basis as Student
Research Associate (SRA) or Senior Student Research Associate (SSRA) with the following hourly payment 
norms:
The following Terms and Conditions are admissible:
(1) The minimum CGPA is 6.5 for employing B.Tech. Students in part-time project work. 
(2) The employment of students be recommended by the Coordinator (Academics – UG
Program) or Coordinator (Academics – PG Program) , and Coordinator of respective Center 
in the prescribed format.
(3) Non-IIT Jodhpur students to be engaged on the projects on the part-time basis, should
produce a NOC from the current Head of the Institute or University along with a bonefide 
student certificate.
(4) Applicable Income Tax is deducted, wherever necessary, for the payment made for the
project employment / assignments.
(5) Any project assignment of the student shall not affect the academic or administrative status
of a student. That is, a student employed on a project will, for purpose of leave, 
accommodation, house rent, etc. (except payment received) be governed by his/her 
student status. During the part-time assignments, he/she will continue getting the regular 
scholarships that may be admissible to him / her.
7.4 Engagement of Skilled, Semi-skilled and unskilled personnel through Manpower Outsourcing 
Agency 
 
To carry out miscellaneous tasks required for the projects, Skilled, Semi-skilled or Unskilled
manpower on hourly basis can be engaged through Outsourcing Manpower Agency, subject to the 
minimum wages as approved by the Government of India (http://clc.gov.in), as applicable. In such cases, the 
following procedure shall be followed:
(a) The PI shall take the approval of Coordinator (R&D) for engaging Skilled, Semi-skilled or
Unskilled personnel;
(b) After getting the approval, the PI shall request to the Office of Logistics for providing the
required personnel through the Manpower Outsourcing Agency; and
(c) The PI shall verify the attendance of the engaged personnel for making monthly payments
of remuneration.
1. No person can be engaged from more than one funding source, i.e., simultaneously a Sponsored
Project and Consultancy Project.
2. No person shall be allowed for continued service for a period more than 89 days at a time in any
particular project.

S. No. Designation Mode of
travel Maximum Hotel
tariff per day against
proper bill (Rs.) Food
Allowance
per day (Rs.) Local
Conveyance
per day (Rs.)
1 Consultant, Senior Project
Scientist or Engineer, Senior
Project Manager or Post-
Doctoral Researcher Rail by ACII
tier, or
Road 3,750 375 250
2 Project Scientist, Engineer or
Manager, Deputy Project
Manager, Senior Project
Associate, Associate,
Technical Officer, Supervisor,
and M. Tech. or Ph. D.
Student. Rail by ACII
tier, or
Road 1,875 250 188
3 Assistant Project Manager,
Senior Project Mechanic,
Senior Project Assistant, and
Project Technician Rail by
ACIII tier,
or Road 625 188 125
4 Project Mechanic, or Project
Assistant Rail by
ACIII tier,
or Road 375 125 63
Norms for Research & Development Projects
Page 20 of 24
8. TRAVEL FROM PROJECT 
 
The PI and others associated with the project can travel for work related to the project to places
within or outside the country through project funds. Institute norms for travel entitlement will be applied, 
subject to availability of funds under budget head "Travel" of the project. The person travelling shall take a 
prior approval form undertaking travel from the Competent Authority, and can draw an advance, if 
required. In case of urgent travel, a post-facto approval may be sought from Competent Authority.
For travel to nearby place(s), taxi may be hired. Payment will be made as per the Institute’s approve
rates. Person travelling can travel through regular cabs or radio cabs; these can be reimbursed on 
submission of the original bills.
The class of travel will be as per his/her entitlement in the Institute. Higher class travel may be
permitted, after the approval of the Competent Authority, depending upon availability of funds in Travel 
head. The person travelling will submit the TA bill duly verified by the PI and it should be entered in the 
project TA register. Food expenses will be reimbursed as per the Institute norms.
Payment of charges to travel agents for ticket purchase assistance, visa assistance, Insurance, etc.
shall be admissible from project funds. But, if funding agency has specified any specific condition(s) for 
travel under the project, that shall be followed normally. 
 
8.1 Travel Entitlement

Norms for Research & Development Projects
Page 21 of 24
9. TEMPORARY PROJECT ADVANCE 
 
To carry out miscellaneous expenditures required for the projects, the PI can use the funds from the
project and will take a temporary advance for the same. Advance can be taken from various budget heads, 
like Contingency, Consumables and Travel. 
 
 
The PI will submit the request in the prescribed format. The PI may take an advance in the name
regular Institute employee. Not more than 4 advances will be sanctioned from one project at a time, and 
that too only one per person. 
 
 
All the advances taken will settle within the 15 days from the date of the completion of the activity
and purpose for which the advance was taken. Statement of expenditure shall be submitted by the PI in the 
prescribed format with all the original bills duly verified. The PI will ensure that all the bills are properly 
entered in stock register. Non-consumables item(s) must be entered in the assets register of the Office of 
Stores & Purchase, else bills will not be passed for the payment. 
 
10. PROJECT PROCUREMENT 
 
All items purchased under a project are property of the Institute, though they are to be used
primarily for the Project. They are to be purchased using the Institute approved procedures. After the 
project terminate or completes, they remain with the Institute, unless there is a specific provision or 
requirement of returning the same to the funding agency. Consequently, each item purchased will be 
recorded in the Assets Register. All permanent assets will depreciate as per the Institute norms. 
 
The PI will verify the original bill and cash memos, and submit in the prescribed format to the Office
of R&D for payment or reimbursement. PI will ensure that all the bills are properly entered in stock register. 
Non-consumables item(s) must be entered in the Assets Register of the Office of Stores & Purchase, else the 
bills will not be passed for the payment. 
 
For the purchase high-end or costly equipment, a Technical Purchase Committee (TPC) has been
constituted to assess the technical aspects of the equipment and their installation. The composition of the 
TPC as:
(a) Coordinator (Laboratory) 
Chairman
(b) One Faculty Member in relevant field of the purchase 
Member
(c) If estimated cost of the equipment is Rs. 1 Crore or above one specialist
working in area of research relevant to purchase
Member
(d) PI of the project 
Member
The responsibilities of the TPC are:
(a) Finalizing the most suitable generic technical requirement for the purchase to meet the objectives
of the projects;
(b) 
Drafting technical specification of the equipment purchase;
(c) Providing technical assistance during the tender process; and 
(d) 
Evaluating technical specification, after tender was opened.
The PI shall seek approval of the Director for constituting the TPC. After Director’s approval, the PI will 
inform the committee members of theirs responsibilities.
11. BUDGETARY NORMS
11.1 
Research Projects
The total charges of a Research project will consist of the Institute Overhead, and actual expenses of
the project covering following:
(a) Permanent equipment to be procured or fabricated equipment or models; 
(b) Consumable materials;

Norms for Research & Development Projects
Page 22 of 24
(c) Travel expenses in connection with the project work (domestic and foreign if budgeted or
allowed by sponsor);
(d) Computational or other charges payable to any other outside agency; 
(e) All contingency expenses for report preparation of report and literature (books, journals) and
any other item budgeted under the proposal and approved by the funding agency;
(f) Expenses for work to be carried out on payment basis, remuneration to student assistants;
and
(g) Insurance on equipment and manpower during travel.
11.2 
Consultancy Projects
The total agreed charges of a Consultancy Project will consist of the Institute Overhead, actual
expenses and the remuneration to be distributed to the Faculty and Staff Members. The actual 
expenses should cover the following costs related to the project. The service tax will be applicable as per 
government rules. In addition:
(a) Permanent equipment to be procured or fabricated equipment or models; 
(b) Consumable materials; 
(c) Travel expenses in connection with the project work; 
(d) Computational or other charges the PI may have to pay to the Institute or any other outside
agency in the course of the execution of the work;
(e) Charges to be paid for the use of specific equipment in the departments or central facilities; 
(f) Contingency expenses to cover cost of supplies, preparation of report, typing, word processing,
drawing, drafting, stationery, reproduction, literature (books, journals, membership fee for 
professional societies), postage, courier, FAX and telephone (including rental and STD or ISD call 
bills of telephone at residence or mobile phones); cost of insurance of personnel or equipment 
being used for the project and medical reimbursement on duty (excluding major ailments) for 
Staff Members etc.;
(g) Expenses for work to be carried out on payment basis, remuneration to student assistants; 
(h) Insurance on equipment and manpower during travel; and 
(i) Any other costs considered appropriate.
The approval of the Coordinator (R&D) to make any expenditure from the project funds, assumes that funds 
are available in the project for the purpose. 
 
12. PROJECT MONITORING COMMITTEE 
 
For large projects the Project Monitoring Committee (PMC) with the following composition shall
review and assess the progress of the project periodically (atleast once a year) for timely completion of the 
projects. The Committee may advice Coordinator (R&D) in any matter on the project. The composition of 
Project Monitoring Committee shall be as follows:
(a) Coordinator (R&D) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chairman
(b) Coordinator of the concerned Center or his nominee 
 
 
 
Member
(c) Coordinator (Laboratories) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Member
(d) One Faculty Member of the relevant field 
 
 
 
 
Member
(e) One specialised from outside the Institute in relevant field, if required 
 
Member
or representative of funding agency
(f) Project Investigator 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Convener
The Director is the Competent Authority to constitute or approve the PMC.

Norms for Research & Development Projects
Page 23 of 24
13. DISAGREEMENT / DISPUTES 
 
Any disagreement within the Institute arising at any stage of a Consultancy Project will be resolved
in consultation with Coordinator (R&D) or Director to ensure an expeditious removal of bottlenecks and 
smooth functioning of the project. 
 
In case of any dispute arising between Investigator(s) and funding agency(s) at any stage of
Consultancy Project, only the Investigator(s) will be responsible for settlement of the dispute. The Institute 
holds no liability in any matter of dispute arising out of the project. All legal action will be subject to 
jurisdiction at Civil Courts at Jodhpur, Rajasthan only. 
 
14. ARBITRATION 
 
In the event of any dispute or difference at any time arising between the parties relating to
Consultancy Project, or any other clause(s) or any content of the right and liabilities of the parties 
or other matters specified therein or with reference to anything arising out of the Consultancy or 
otherwise in relation to the terms, whether during the Consultancy or thereafter, such disputes or 
differences shall be endeavoured be resolved by mutual negotiations. If, such negotiations are 
infructuous, the dispute should be finally settled through Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 by 
three arbitrators appointed in accordance with the said Act. The arbitrators shall give reasoned and 
speaking award. 
 
15. LIMITED LIABILITY 
 
In case, any legal dispute arises between the Investigator(s) and the funding agency, such
that the Investigator(s) are in any way held responsible to make good the losses incurred by the 
funding agency, such liability will be restricted to a Maximum liability calculated as follows: 
 
Maximum Liability = Total Fee Charged for the project – Expenditure already incurred in the project 
 
The PI shall be responsible to bring this fact to the notice of the finding agency. 
 
16. GUIDELINES FOR MEMORANDA OF UNDERSTANDING (MoU) / AGREEMENT 
 
The Institute’s research philosophy has progressed from inter-departmental collaboration, to inter-
institutional partnerships at national and international levels. The Institute needs to sign several 
Memoranda of Understanding, Contracts or Agreements with Indian as well as international academic or 
research institutions and industries to strengthen its collaborative research efforts. While getting into these 
research or academic agreements with agencies, laboratories, organizations and companies, the document 
that is prepared needs to be couched in the right language. It carries legal weightage and can be very 
important under certain circumstances. 
 
Some of the important points need to remember
(a) Intellectual Property Rights: The Institute should try to keep its rights intact as far as possible. The
Institute must protect its right to use the information generated from our research at any point in 
the future without having to seek permission in case IPR is owned by other party. The developer 
should have the right to publish the paper.
(b) Developer, Coordinator or Project Investigator: MoU should carry the name of the developer, who
will accomplish the goals of the project. He/she is responsible for the execution of the project.
(c) Deliverables: The wording of this section is most crucial in the text of the MoU. Accuracy is
paramount. The timeline should be attainable. Deliverables should be clearly mentioned as an 
article/clause of the Agreement or as an annexure. Statement of Work and dates of milestones to 
be achieved are spelt out. A full project proposal may be attached for completeness.
(d) Overheads and Taxes: Budget should be inclusive of Institute overheads as per rules and service tax
(if applicable). Budget should be annexed to the Agreement. There should be some initial payment 
(say 25%) to start the Project.

Norms for Research & Development Projects
Page 24 of 24
(e) Conflict Resolution: The MoU should stipulate the jurisdiction of the local courts (including New
Delhi). This is an important point for international MOUs. The agreement will be governed by the 
Indian Laws. Applicability of foreign laws for dispute resolution is not allowed. Alternately, dispute 
may be referred for Arbitration under the provisions of:
(i) 
The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 or any statutory modification/re-enactment 
thereof and rules made there-under; and
(ii) The Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce. Or the Arbitration Rules
of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL).
Place of arbitration for domestic will be Jodhpur and for International will be New Delhi (India). 
Alternately, in case a party files a complaint (Plaintiff), the Defendant (against whom a claim or 
charge is brought) will have choice to designate the place of arbitration.
(f) Confidentiality: The PI and team members shall be responsible for non-disclosure of confidential
information. Perpetual non-disclosure of confidential information should be avoided as far as 
possible.
(g) Technology Transfer Agreement
(1) The agreement should give reference of the technology to be transferred (in terms of
(2) Any information, materials, services, intellectual property, other property or rights, granted
or provided by IIT Jodhpur pursuant to this agreement are on an as-is-where-is basis;
(3) IIT Jodhpur does not make any warranty of any kind, either express or implied, as to any
matter including, but not limited to, warranty of fitness for particular purpose, or 
merchantability, exclusivity or results obtained from use;
(4) IIT Jodhpur cannot give warranty of successful exploitation of the technology; 
(5) In case, the other party transfers or assigns IPR acquired in technology transfer agreement
developed by IIT Jodhpur, or transfers or sells IPR or product developed based on the 
technology during any project to any third party, the above clauses will also be applicable to 
third party;
(6) Technology transfer agreement will be a standalone agreement. Any further development
for manufacturing the product or commercialization of the technology will be governed by a 
separate service or consultancy agreement;
(7) Any penalty or security deposit clause is not acceptable; 
(8) IIT Jodhpur shall not bear any charges for the transfer of assets or technology; and 
(9) Equipment purchased out of the project funds will be owned by the Institute and will not be
returned to the funding agency.
When MoU is clear from all angles and acceptable to both the parties, it shall be sent to the Director for 
approval along with the a summary of the MoU, duly signed by PI, forwarded by Coordinator (R&D). 
After approval, the same may be signed by the authorized signatories along with witness. A copy of 
MoU signed by both the parties shall be kept in records at Office of R&D, and placed at the next BOG 
meeting for its perusal.