SOURCE_PDF: 7c18c83e3bf2_Repair-and-maintenance-of-electrical-infrastructure-of-IIT-Jodhpur-639038237970670776.pdf

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
NH-62 NAGAUR ROAD KARWAR JODHPUR
Index of Tender documents
Sr. No. 
DETAILS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PAGE NO.
1. Index 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1-1
2. Tender Notice with Performa for Earnest Money Deposit Declaration 
2-5
3. Form “F” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 - 6
4. Terms & condition including IITJ/CPWD Form 7/8 
 
 
 
7-28
5. Proforma of schedules A, B, C, D, E & F 
 
 
 
 
 
29-33
6. Bank Guarantee Bond 
 
 
 
 
 
 
34-34
7. Additional Terms and Conditions 
 
 
 
 
 
35-39
8. Make list 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40-41
9. Schedule of Quantities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
42-61
10. Price Bid 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
62-62
This tender document contains pages One to Sixty-Two Only. 
 
NIT Amounting to Rs. 1,33,43,581.00 (Rupees One Crore Thirty-Three Lakh Forty-Three Thousand Five Hundred 
Eighty-One Only)
Superintending Engineer
IIT Jodhpur

8. Last time & date of submission of bid: 02/02/202 6 up to 3:00 pm (on line)
NOTICE INVITING E-TENDERS
Superintending Engineer, Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur invites online Percentage Rate Tender from 
Firms/ Contractors for the following work: 
 
1. NIT No 
 
: 
IITJ/OIE/2025-26/34.
2. Name of Work 
: 
Repair and maintenance of electrical infrastructure of IIT Jodhpur.
3. Sub Head 
 
: 
Electrical Work.
4. Estimated cost 
: 
Rs. 1,33,43,581.00
5. Earnest money 
: 
Rs. 2,66,872.00
6. Tender Fee 
: 
Rs. 1000.00
7. Period of completion : 
01 Year.
The 
bid 
forms 
and 
other 
details 
can 
be 
obtained 
from 
the 
website 
http://www.iitj.ac.in 
or
http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app free of cost. For more clarification you may visit on above website.
Superintending Engineer
IIT Jodhpur
Copy to: - 
 
1. 
DOIP
2. 
ADEI
3. 
Executive Engineer (Civil)
4. 
Assistant Executive Engineer (Electrical-I)
6. 
Office Copy

S. No. NIT
No. Name of Work Estimated
Cost
(in Rs.) Earnest
Money
(in Rs.) Tender
Fees (in
Rs.) Time for
completion
1 .43/62-5202/EIO/JTII Repair and maintenance of
electrical infrastructure of IIT
Jodhpur.
Sub Head: - Electrical Work Rs. 1,33,43,581.00 Rs. 2,66,872.00 Rs. 1000/- 01 Year.
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
NH-62 NAGAUR ROAD KARWAR JODHPUR
INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS FOR BIDDERS FOR e-TENDERING (Tender Notice)
Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur invite online Percentage Rate Tender on two bid systems through CPP 
Portal from Firms/ Contractors for the following work:
Price/Financial bids of eligible bidders as per NIT shall be opened at a later date after scrutiny of technical 
bids.
1. The successful bidders shall be required to submit a performance guarantee of 5% of the tendered amount
in the form of Bank Guarantee or F.D.R. from a Nationalized/Scheduled Bank within 07 days of issue of 
letter of intent before award of work. In case the contractor is failed to deposit the performance guarantee 
within the specified period, full earnest money will be forfeited, and the tender shall be treated as void. 
The performance guarantee shall be initially valid up to the stipulated date of completion plus 06 months 
beyond.
2. Contractors who fulfill the following requirements shall be eligible to apply. Joint ventures are not
Firms/contractors must have completed similar works satisfactorily under Government organization/ 
Public Sector Undertaking / Autonomous bodies only.
i) 
 One similar single electrical work amounting to Rs. 1,06,74,865.00
Or
ii) 
Two similar electrical work and each single work amounting to Rs. 80,06,149.00
Or
iii) 
Three similar electrical work and each single work amounting to Rs.53,37,432.00
Works completed during last 7 years ending on 31.12.2025.
iv) 
Earnest money and Tender fee in the form of Demand Draft or pay order or Banker’s Cheque or 
Deposit at Call Receipt (drawn in favour of Director IIT Jodhpur,) as specified of any scheduled / 
Nationalized Bank or online payment through RTGS/NEFT as per details given in the NIT.

3. The intending bidder must read the terms and conditions of IITJ/CPWD-6 carefully. He should only
submit his bid if he considers himself eligible and he is in possession of all the documents required.
4. No exemption for submission of EMD/experience of work shall be allowed for MSME. 
5. No relaxation in EMD will be allowed for MSME and MSEs as per CPWD works manual. 
6. Information and Instructions for bidders posted on website shall form part of bid document. 
7. The bid document consisting of plans, specifications, the schedule of quantities of various types of items to
be executed and the set of terms and conditions of the contract to be complied with and other necessary 
documents can be seen and downloaded from website http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app in free of 
cost.
8. Completion certificates issued by an officer not below the rank of Executive Engineer or equivalent
level shall be considered.
• 
Similar work means “Electrical work”.
9. The value of executed work shall be brought to current costing level by enhancing the actual value of work
at simple rate of 7% per annum calculated from the date of completion to last date of submission of 
financial bid.
10. IIT Jodhpur is committed to follow the principle of transparency, equity and competitiveness in public
procurement. Before submission of bid each bid should sign integrity pact at respective places and submit 
the bid, if duly signed integrity pact is not submitted by bidder such bid shall not be considered.
11. Those contractors not registered on CPP Portal are required to get registered beforehand. If needed they
can be imparted training on online bidding process as per details available on the website
12. The intending bidder must have valid class-III digital signature to submit the bid. 
13. On opening date, the contractor can login and see the bid opening process. After opening the bids, he will
receive the competitor’s bid sheets.
14. Contractors can upload documents in the form of JPG format and PDF format. 
15. Contractor must ensure to quote rate of each item, while selecting any of the cells a warning appears that if
any cell is left blank the same shall be treated as “0”.Therefore, if any cell is left blank and no rate is quoted 
by the bidder, rate of such item shall be treated as “0” (ZERO).
16. The department reserves the right to reject any prospective application without assigning any reason and
to restrict the list of qualified contractors to any number deemed suitable by it, if too many bids are 
received satisfying the laid down criterion.
17. In e-Tendering intending bidder can quote his rates in figures only. The rates in words, amount of each
item and total is generated automatically. Therefore, the rate quoted by the bidder in figures is to be taken 
as correct.
18. The bid can only be submitted after uploading the mandatory scanned documents such as Demand Draft
or Fixed Deposit Receipts or through RTGS / NEFT towards Tender Fee and EMD (if applicable) in 
favour of Director, I.I.T. Jodhpur or to be deposited with http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app/ NEFT 
facility. 
For online payment through RTGS/NEFT IIT Jodhpur Bank details are as below: 
Name of Bank A/C 
: 
Revenue Account IIT Jodhpur
Account No. 
 
: 
3399101000631
IFSC Code 
 
: 
CNRB0003399
MICR Code 
 
: 
342015501
Name of Bank & Branch 
: 
Canara Bank & IIT Jodhpur.
19. The EMD in original shall be deposited by the lowest tenderer within a week after opening of financial bid
failing which the tender shall be rejected.
20. Certificate of work experience and other documents as specified in the notice inviting tender shall be
scanned and uploaded to the e-Tendering website within the period of bid submission. However, certified 
/ original copy of all the scanned and uploaded documents as specified in web notice may be verified by 
the institute.
21. The bid submitted shall become invalid if:
i. The bidder does not upload all the documents (including GST registration) as stipulated in the bid
ii. The lowest bidder does not deposit original EMD declaration within a week of opening of tender.
iii. In the event of tender being submitted by a firm, it must be signed separately by each partner thereof
or in the event of the absence of any partner, it must be signed on his behalf by a person holding a 
power of attorney authorizing him to do so, such power of attorney to be produced with the tender,

and it must disclose that the firm is duly registered under the Indian Partnership Act 1932, above not 
submitted.
22. Bid validity shall be 90 days after opening of bids.
23. List of Documents to be scanned and uploaded within the period of bid submission:
i. Affidavit (on Rs. 10 non-judicial stamp with notarized) regarding establishment of proprietorship
firm/ partnership deed/ letter of incorporation for private ltd/ ltd firm with written power of attorney 
(in case of bidder is owner, not required) of authorized signatory.
ii. Proof of deposit of Tender Fee and EMD.
iii. Attested copy of work experience certificate. 
iv. Attested copy of valid PAN, GSTIN Registration.
v. Attested copy of up to date filed return of GST.
vi. Affidavit as per Notice Inviting Tender Condition 1.3 of IITJ/CPWD-6 FOR e-TENDERING.
vii. Acceptance to execute Integrity Pact.
viii. FORM “F” (Duly filled with all relevant required details).
ix. Electrical Contractor License.
x. List of Govt Organization as per Annexure-II
xi. Signed BoQ.

STRUCTURE & ORGANISATION
1. Name & Address of the bidder:
2. Telephone no./ Phone no./ Fax no.:
4. Contact Person No.:
7. Tender Fee (UTR No.):
(In case of on-line payment of Tender Fee)
8. 
EMD (UTR No.) 
(In case of on-line payment of Tender Fee):
9. Legal status of the bidder (attach copies of original document defining the legal status):
a. An Individual
b. A proprietary firm
c. 
A firm in partnership
d. A limited company or corporation
5. Designation of individuals authorized to act for the organization……………………………………………!
6. 
Has the bidder or any constituent partner in case of partnership firm, ever abandoned the awarded work
before its completion? If so, give name of the project and reasons for abandonment………………………!
7. 
Has the bidder or any constituent partner in case of partnership firm, ever been debarred/ blacklisted for
tendering in any organization at any time? If so, give details…………………………………………………..!
8. 
Has the bidder, or any constituent partner in case of partnership firm, ever been convicted by the court of
law? If so, give details……………………………………………………………………………………………….!
Signature of Bidder/Tenderer

Details of the item As per Tender Notice
Earnest Money Deposit to
be submitted As per Tender Notice
Warranty As per Tender Notice, NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Performance security As per Tender Notice, NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
NH-62 NAGAUR ROAD KARWAR JODHPUR
Notice Inviting Tender
Terms & Conditions
Tender 
Documents 
may 
be 
downloaded 
from 
Central 
Public 
Procurement 
Portal
http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app. Aspiring Bidders who have not enrolled / registered in e-procurement 
should enroll / register before participating through the website http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app . The 
portal enrolment is free of cost. Bidders are advised to go through instructions provided at ‘Instructions for online 
Bid Submission ‘. 
 
Tenderers can access tender documents on the website (For searching in the NIC site, kindly go to Tender Search 
option and type ‘IIT’. Thereafter, Click on “GO” button to view all IIT Jodhpur tenders). Select the appropriate 
tender and fill them with all relevant information and submit the completed tender document online on the 
website http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app as per the schedule given in the next page. 
 
No manual bid will be accepted. All quotes (both Technical and Financial should be submitted in the E-
procurement portal).

Tender Type
(Open/Limited/EOI/Auction/Single) Open.
Tender Category (Services/Goods/works) Works.
Type/Form of Contract (Work/Supply/
Auction/Service/Buy/Empanelment/ Sell) Works.
Product Category (Civil Works/Electrical
Works/Fleet Management/ Computer Systems) Electrical.
Source of Fund (Institute/Project) Institute Recurring Budget.
Is Multi Currency Allowed No
Date of Issue/Publishing 12/01/2026.
Document Download/Sale Start Date 12/01/2026.
Document Download/Sale End Date 02/02/2026.
Date for Pre-Bid Conference Nil.
Venue of Pre-Bid Conference N/A.
Last Date and Time for Uploading of Bids As per Tender Notice.
Date and Time of Opening of Technical Bids As per Tender Notice.
Tender Fee (as per tender notice) In the form of Demand Draft or Fixed Deposit Receipts or
term deposit or through RTGS / NEFT (for online payment,
IIT Jodhpur Bank account details are as under):
Name of the Bank A/C: Revenue Account, IIT Jodhpur.
Canara Bank A/C No. : 3399101000631.
Name of the Bank : Canara Bank IIT Jodhpur.
IFSC Code : CNRB0003399.
MICR Code : 342015501.
No. of Covers (1/2/3/4) 02 (Technical and Financial).
Bid Validity days 90 days (From the date of opening of bids)
Address for Communication Assistant Executive Engineer, Office of Infrastructure, W-1
Berm, IIT Jodhpur.
Contact No. 0291-2801054.
Email Address oie@iitj.ac.in
Schedule

Instructions for Online Bid Submission:
As per the directives of Department of Expenditure, this tender document has been published on the Central 
Public Procurement Portal (URL:http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app). The bidders are required to submit soft 
copies of their bids electronically on the CPP Portal, using valid Digital Signature Certificates. The instructions 
given below are meant to assist the bidders in registering on the CPP Portal, prepare their bids in accordance with 
the requirements and submitting their bids online on the CPP Portal.
More information useful for submitting online bids on the CPP Portal may be obtained at:
REGISTRATION
1) 
Bidders are required to enroll on the e-Procurement module of the Central Public Procurement Portal 
(URL:http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app) by clicking on the link “Click here to Enroll”. Enrolment on 
the CPP Portal is free of charge.
2) 
As part of the enrolment process, the bidders will be required to choose a unique username and assign a 
password for their accounts.
3) 
Bidders are advised to register their valid email address and mobile numbers as part of the registration 
process. These would be used for any communication from the CPP Portal.
4) 
Upon enrolment, the bidders will be required to register their valid Digital Signature Certificate (Class II 
or Class III Certificates with signing key usage) issued by any Certifying Authority recognized by CCA 
India (e.g. Sify / TCS / nCode / eMudhra etc.), with their profile.
5) 
Only one valid DSC should be registered by a bidder. Please note that the bidders are responsible to ensure 
that they do not lend their DSCs to others which may lead to misuse.
6) 
Bidder then logs in to the site through the secured log-in by entering their userID / password and the 
password of the DSC / eToken.
SEARCHING FOR TENDER DOCUMENTS
1) 
There are various search options built in the CPP Portal, to facilitate bidders to search active tenders by 
several parameters. These parameters could include Tender ID, organization name, location, date, value, 
etc. There is also an option of advanced search for tenders, wherein the bidders may combine a number of 
search parameters such as organization name, form of contract, location, date, other keywords etc. to 
search for a tender published on the CPP Portal.
2) 
Once the bidders have selected the tenders they are interested in, they may download the required 
documents / tender schedules. These tenders can be moved to the respective ‘My Tenders’ folder. This 
would enable the CPP Portal to intimate the bidders through SMS / e-mail in case there is any 
corrigendum issued to the tender document.
3) 
The bidder should make a note of the unique Tender ID assigned to each tender, in case they want to 
obtain any clarification / help from the Helpdesk.
PREPARATION OF BIDS
1) 
Bidder should take into account any corrigendum published on the tender document before submitting 
their bids.
2) 
Please go through the tender advertisement and the tender document carefully to understand the 
documents required to be submitted as part of the bid. Please note the number of covers in which the bid

documents have to be submitted, the number of documents - including the names and content of each of 
the document that need to be submitted. Any deviations from these may lead to rejection of the bid.
3) 
Bidder, in advance, should get ready the bid documents to be submitted as indicated in the tender 
document / schedule and generally, they can be in PDF / XLS / RAR / DWF formats. Bid documents may 
be scanned with 100 dpi with black and white option.
4) 
To avoid the time and effort required in uploading the same set of standard documents which are required 
to be submitted as a part of every bid, a provision of uploading such standard documents (e.g. PAN card 
copy, annual reports, auditor certificates etc.) has been provided to the bidders. Bidders can use “My 
Space” area available to them to upload such documents. These documents may be directly submitted from 
the “My Space” area while submitting a bid, and need not be uploaded again and again. This will lead to a 
reduction in the time required for bid submission process.
SUBMISSION OF BIDS
1) 
Bidder should log into the site well in advance for bid submission so that he/she upload the bid in time i.e. 
on or before the bid submission time. Bidder will be responsible for any delay due to other issues.
2) 
The bidder has to digitally sign and upload the required bid documents one by one as indicated in the 
tender document.
3) 
Bidder has to select the payment option as “on-line” to pay the tender fee / EMD as applicable and enter 
details of the instrument. Whenever, EMD / Tender fees are sought, bidders need to pay the tender fee and 
EMD separately on-line through RTGS or scan copy of original demand draft (Refer to Schedule, Page 
No.2).
4) 
A standard BoQ format has been provided with the tender document to be filled by all the bidders. Bidders 
are requested to note that they should necessarily submit their financial bids in the format provided and no 
other format is acceptable. Bidders are required to download the BoQ file, open it and complete the white 
coloured (unprotected) cells with their respective financial quotes and other details (such as name of the 
bidder). No other cells should be changed. Once the details have been completed, the bidder should save it 
and submit it online, without changing the filename. If the BoQ file is found to be modified by the bidder, 
the bid will be rejected.
OR
In some cases, Financial Bids can be submitted in PDF format as well (in lieu of BOQ).
5) 
The server time (which is displayed on the bidders’ dashboard) will be considered as the standard time for 
referencing the deadlines for submission of the bids by the bidders, opening of bids etc. The bidders should 
follow this time during bid submission.
6) 
All the documents being submitted by the bidders would be encrypted using PKI encryption techniques to 
ensure the secrecy of the data. The data entered cannot be viewed by unauthorized persons until the time 
of bid opening. The confidentiality of the bids is maintained using the secured Socket Layer 128 bit 
encryption technology. Data storage encryption of sensitive fields is done.
7) 
The uploaded tender documents become readable only after the tender opening by the authorized bid 
openers.
8) 
Upon the successful and timely submission of bids, the portal will give a successful bid submission 
message & a bid summary will be displayed with the bid no. and the date & time of submission of the bid 
with all other relevant details.
9) 
Kindly add scanned PDF of all relevant documents in a single PDF file of compliance sheet.

ASSISTANCE TO BIDDERS
1. 
Any queries relating to the tender document and the terms and conditions contained therein should be 
addressed to the Tender Inviting Authority for a tender or the relevant contact person indicated in the 
tender.
2. 
Any queries relating to the process of online bid submission or queries relating to CPP Portal in general 
may be directed to the 24x7 CPP Portal Helpdesk. The contact number for the helpdesk is 1800 233 7315.
General Instructions to the Bidders
1) 
The tenders will be received online through portal http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app . In the Technical 
Bids, the bidders are required to upload all the documents in .pdf format.
2) 
Possession of a Valid Class II/III Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) in the form of smart card/e-token in 
the company's name is a prerequisite for registration and participating in the bid submission activities 
through https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app. Digital Signature Certificates can be obtained from the 
authorized 
certifying 
agencies, 
details 
of 
which 
are 
available 
in 
the 
web 
site
https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app under the link “Information about DSC”.
3) 
Tenderer are advised to follow the instructions provided in the ‘Instructions to the Tenderer for the e-
submission of the bids online through the Central Public Procurement Portal for e Procurement at 
https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app.

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
Tenders have been invited on the basis of standard Forms 7/8 and General Conditions of contract for the 
work in Central Public Works Department (CPWD). However, in the contact of IIT Jodhpur, the following 
terms may be read as:
S. 
 As per Standard Forms 
 
 
 
To be read as
I 
 President of India 
 
 
 
Director, IIT Jodhpur
II 
Government of India 
 
 
 
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
III 
Central Public Works Departments 
 
Office of Infrastructure Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
IV 
Chief Engineer, CPWD 
 Dean of Infrastructure Planning, IIT Jodhpur
V 
Circle Office 
 
 
 
 
Office of Infrastructure Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
Superintending Engineer
Office of Infrastructure Engineering.

S.
No. Specification
1. Due date: The tender has to be submitted online before the due date. The offers received after the due date
and time will not be considered. No manual bids will be considered.
2. Preparation of Bids: The offer/bid should be submitted in two bid systems (i.e.) Technical bid and
financial bid. The technical bid should consist of all technical details along with commercial terms and
conditions. Financial bid should indicate item wise price for the items mentioned in the technical bid in the
given format i.e BOQ_XXXX.
OR
Financial Bids to be submitted in Excel.
The Technical bid and the financial bid should be submitted online.
3. EMD (if applicable): As per NIT
4. Refund of EMD: As per NIT
5. Opening of the tender: As per Tender Notice, NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
6. Acceptance/ Rejection of bids: The Committee reserves the right to reject any or all offers without
assigning any reason.
7. Pre-qualification criteria: Mentioned in Tender notice
8. Performance Security: Mentioned in Tender notice
9. Force Majeure: As per IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
10. Risk & Cost Clause: As per IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
11. Delivery and Documents: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
12. Delayed delivery: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
13. Prices: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
14. Progress of Work: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
15. Inspection and Tests: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
16. Resolution of Disputes: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
17. Applicable Law: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
18. Supplier Integrity: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
19. Training: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
20. Installation & Demonstration: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
21. Incidental services: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
22. Defect liability Period: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
23. Governing Language: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
24. Applicable Law: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
25. Notices: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
26. Taxes: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
27. Termination for Default: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
28. Disputes and Jurisdiction: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
29. Completion certificate: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Terms & Conditions Details

S. No. Technical Bid Requirement As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7
(Duly attested) Compliance Y/N
1 Tender Fee.
3 Experience Certificate.
4 PAN Card and GSTIN Registration.
5 Up to date filed return of GST.
6 Affidavit as per Notice Inviting Tender Condition 1.3 at page 16 of NIT.
7 INTEGRITY PACT Acceptance.
8 FORM-F (duly filled with all required details).
9 Electrical contractor License.
10 Affidavit as per Notice Inviting Tender Condition 23(i) at page 5 of NIT.
11 List of Govt. Organization as per Annexure-II
COMPLIANCE SHEET
I have also enclosed all relevant documents in support of my claims, (as above) in the following pages.
Signature of Bidder
Organization Name: __________________________
Contact No. : ____________________________

Name of the organization Name of Contact Person Contact No.
List of Govt. Organization/ Department.
Signature of Bidder
Organization Name: __________________________
Contact No.: ____________________________

IITJ/CPWD -6 FOR e-TENDERING
Percentage rate tenders are invited from contractors/firms engaged in the field of Electrical work in 
appropriate category for the work as per tender notice.
1. 
The contractor should have valid electrical contractor license on the last date of submission of tenders. In 
case the last date of submission of tender is extended, the Electrical contractor license should be valid on 
the original date of submission of tenders.
1.1 
The work is estimated to cost as per tender notice. This estimate, however, is given merely as a rough 
guide.
1.2 
Details of criteria for eligibility as Indicated in “INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS FOR 
CONTRACTORS FOR e-TENDERING FORMING PART OF NIT AND TO BE POSTED ON WEBSITE”
1.3 
To become eligible for issue of tender, the tenderer shall have to furnish an affidavit.
(i) 
Affidavit shall be purchased /notarized on or after NIT published date but on or before last date 
of submission of NIT.
(ii) 
Affidavit must have “NIT/tender reference number” and “Name of work” and shall be used 
once for each fresh tender. 
No back dated affidavit shall be entertained and non-compliance of point (i) & (ii) shall lead to 
rejection of the tender.
Affidavit should be as mentioned under: -
“I/We undertake and confirm that eligible similar works(s) has/have not been got executed through 
another contractor on back to back basis. Further that, if such a violation comes to the notice of 
Department, then I/we shall be debarred for tendering in IIT Jodhpur in future forever. Also, if such a 
violation comes to the notice of Department before date of start of work, the Engineer-in-Charge shall 
be free to forfeit the entire amount of Earnest Money Deposit/Performance Guarantee.” (Scanned 
copy to be uploaded at the time of submission of bid)
2. 
Agreement shall be drawn with the successful bidders on prescribed Form No. IITJ/CPWD form No. 7 
(or other standard form as mentioned), which is available as a Govt. of India Publication. Bidders shall 
quote his rates as per various terms and conditions of the said form which will form part of the 
agreement.
3. 
The time allowed for carrying out the work will be as per tender notice from the date of start as defined 
in schedule ‘F’ or from the first date of handing over of the site, whichever is later, in accordance with the 
phasing, if any, indicated in the tender documents.
4. 
The site for the work is available.
5. 
The bid document consisting of plans, specifications, the schedule of quantities of various types of items 
to be executed and the set of terms and conditions of the contract to be complied with and other 
necessary documents except Standard General Conditions of Contract Form can be seen from the web 
Site http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app or iitj.ac.in or e-procure.gov free of cost.
6. 
After submission of the bid the contractor can re-submit revised bid any number of times but before last 
time and date of submission of tender as notified.
7. 
While submitting the revised bid, contractor can revise the rate of one or more item(s) any number of 
times (he need not re-enter rate of all the items) but before last time and date of submission of tender as 
notified.
8. 
If it is desired to submit revised financial bid, then it shall be mandatory to submit revised financial bid. 
If not submitted, then the tender submitted earlier shall become invalid.
9. 
Earnest Money in the form of Demand Draft or Fixed Deposit Receipts (drawn in favour of Director IIT 
Jodhpur) or through RTGS / NEFT from any Scheduled/ Nationalized Bank and shall be scanned &

uploaded to the e-tendering website within the period of tender submission and original should be 
deposited by lowest bidder within a week after the opening of financial bid in office of Superintending 
Engineer, IIT Jodhpur.
10. 
The time & date of submission & opening of financial bid of contractors qualifying the criteria as per 
Tender Notice shall be communicated to them at a later date.
11. 
The successful bidders shall be required to submit a performance guarantee of 5% of the tendered 
amount in the form of Bank Guarantee or F.D.R. from a Nationalized/Scheduled Bank within 07 days of 
issue of letter of intent before award of work. In case the contractor fails to deposit the performance 
guarantee within the specified period, full earnest money will be forfeited, and the tender shall be treated 
as void. The performance guarantee shall be initially valid up to the stipulated date of completion plus 06 
months beyond.
12. 
The earnest money deposited along with bid shall be returned after receiving the aforesaid performance 
guarantee. In case the contractor fails to deposit the said performance guarantee within the period as 
indicated in Schedule ‘F’ including the extended period if any, the Earnest Money deposited by the 
contractor shall be forfeited automatically without any notice to the contractor.
13. 
Intending Bidders are advised to inspect and examine the site and its surroundings and satisfy 
themselves before submitting their tenders as to the nature of the ground and sub-soil (so far as is 
practicable), the form and nature of the site, the means of access to the site, the accommodation they may 
require and in general shall themselves obtain all necessary information as to risks, contingencies and 
other circumstances which may influence or affect their tender. Bidder shall be deemed to have full 
knowledge of the site whether he inspects it or not and no extra charge consequent to any 
misunderstanding or otherwise shall be allowed. The tenderer shall be responsible for arranging and 
maintaining at his own cost all materials, tools & plants, water, electricity, access, facilities for workers 
and all other services required for executing the work unless otherwise specifically provided for in the 
contract documents. Submission of a tender by a tenderer implies that he has read this notice and all 
other contract documents and has made himself aware of the scope and specifications of the work to be 
done and of conditions and rates at which stores, tools and plant, etc. will be issued to him by the 
Government , local conditions and other factors having a bearing on the execution of the work.
14. 
The competent authority does not bind itself to accept the lowest or any other tender and reserves to 
itself the authority to reject any or all the tenders received without the assignment of any reason. All 
tenders in which any of the prescribed condition is not fulfilled or any condition including that of 
conditional rebate is put forth by the tenderer shall be summarily rejected.
15. 
Canvassing whether directly or indirectly, in connection with tenderers is strictly prohibited and the 
tenders submitted by the contractors who resort to canvassing will be liable to rejection.
16. 
The competent authority reserves the right to accept the whole or any part of the tender and the tenderer 
shall be bound to perform the same at the rate quoted.
17. 
The bidder shall not be permitted to tender for works in the IIT Jodhpur responsible for award and 
execution of contracts, in which his near relative is posted as a Divisional Accountant or as an officer in 
any capacity between the grades of Dean of Infrastructure Planning and Junior Engineer (both inclusive). 
The contract shall be withdrawn if any bidder is found violating this condition.
18. 
No Engineer of Gazetted rank or other Gazetted Officer employed in Engineering or Administrative 
duties in an Engineering Department of the Government of India is allowed to work as a contractor for a 
period of one year after his retirement from Government service, without the previous permission of the 
Government of India in writing. This contract is liable to be cancelled if either the contractor or any of his 
employees is found at any time to be such a person who had not obtained the permission of the 
Government of India as aforesaid before submission of the tender or engagement in the contractor’s 
service.
19. 
The tender for the works shall remain open for acceptance for a period of ninety (90) days from the date 
of opening of tender. If any tenderer withdraws his tender before the said period or issue of letter of

acceptance, whichever is earlier, or makes any modifications in the terms and conditions of the tender 
which are not acceptable to the department, then the institute shall, without prejudice to any other right 
or remedy, be at liberty to forfeit 50% of the said earnest money as aforesaid. Further the tenderer shall 
not be allowed to participate in the retendering process of the work.
20. 
This notice inviting tender shall form a part of the contract document. The successful tenderer / 
contractor, on acceptance of his tender by the Accepting Authority shall within 15 days from the 
stipulated date of start of the work, sign the contract consisting of:
a. The Notice Inviting Tender, all the documents including additional conditions, specifications and
drawings, if any, forming part of the tender as uploaded at the time of invitation of tender and the 
rates quoted online at the time of submission of bid and acceptance thereof together with any 
correspondence leading thereto.
b. Standard IITJ/CPWD Form – 7/8 or other Standard IITJ Form as mentioned.
Superintending Engineer
IIT Jodhpur

INTEGRATY PACT e-TENDERING I.I.T.J
Subject: - Repair and maintenance of electrical infrastructure of IIT Jodhpur.
Sub Head: - Electrical Work. 
 
Dear Sir,
It is hereby declared that I.I.T. Jodhpur is committed to follow the principle of transparency, equity
and competitiveness in public procurement.
The subject Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) is an invitation to offer made on the condition that the
Bidder will sign the integrity Agreement, which is an integral part of tender/bid documents, failing which 
the tenderer / bidder will stand disqualified from the tendering process and the bid of the bidder would be 
summarily rejected.
This declaration shall form part and parcel of the Integrity Agreement and signing of the same
shall be deemed as acceptance and signing of the Integrity Agreement on behalf of the I.I.T. Jodhpur.
Yours faithfully
Superintending Engineer
Office of Infrastructure Engineering

Acceptance to execute integrity pact I.I.T.J
(To be signed by bidder and upload the scanned copy)
To, 
Superintending Engineer, 
IIT Jodhpur, NH 62 Nagaur Road Karwar 
Jodhpur Rajasthan.
Subject: 
Submission of Bid for the “Repair and maintenance of electrical infrastructure of IIT 
 Jodhpur”.
Sub Head: 
Electrical Work
Dear Sir,
I/We acknowledge that I.I.T. Jodhpur is committed to follow the principles thereof as
enumerated in the Integrity Agreement enclosed with the tender/bid document.
I/We agree that the Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) is an invitation to offer made on the
condition that I/We will sign the enclosed integrity Agreement, which is an integral part of tender / 
bid documents, failing which I/We will stand disqualified from the tendering process. I/We 
acknowledge that THE MAKING OF THE BID SHALL BE REGARDED AS AN UNCONDITIONAL 
AND ABSOLUTE ACCEPTANCE of this condition of the NIT.
I/We confirm acceptance and compliance with the Integrity Agreement in letter and spirit and
further agree that execution of the said Integrity Agreement shall be separate and distinct from the 
main contract, which will come into existence when tender/bid is finally accepted by I.I.T. Jodhpur. 
I/We acknowledge and accept the duration of the Integrity Agreement, which shall be in the line with 
Article 1 of the enclosed Integrity Agreement.
I/We acknowledge that in the event of my/our failure to sign and accept the Integrity
Agreement, while submitting the tender/bid, I.I.T. Jodhpur shall have unqualified, absolute and 
unfettered right to disqualify the tender / bidder and reject the tender/bid is accordance with terms 
and conditions of the tender/bid.
Yours faithfully
(Duly authorized signatory of the Bidder)

INTEGRATY PACT e-TENDERING I.I.T.J
To be signed by the bidder and same signatory competent / authorized to
sign the relevant contract on behalf of IIT Jodhpur.
INTEGRITY AGREEMENT
This Integrity Agreement is made at ...........................................on this....................day of................. 2..........
BETWEEN
The Director, IIT Jodhpur represented through Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur
................................................................................................................................................, (Hereinafter referred as the
(Address of Division)
‘Principal/Owner’, which expression shall unless repugnant to the meaning or context hereof include its 
successors and permitted assigns)
AND
(Name and Address of the Individual /firm/Company)
through............................................................................................................................. (Hereinafter referred to as the
(Details of duly authorized signatory)
“Bidder/Contractor” and which expression shall unless repugnant to the meaning or context hereof include 
its successors and permitted assigns) 
 
Preamble
WHEREAS the Principal / Owner has floated the Tender (NIT No. .......................................) (Hereinafter 
referred to as “Tender/Bid”) and intends to award, under laid down organizational procedure, contract 
for……………………. 
 
…………...................................................................................................................................................................................
(Name of work)
hereinafter referred to as the “Contract”.
AND WHEREAS the Principal/Owner values full compliance with all relevant laws of the land, rules, 
regulations, economic use of resources and of fairness/transparency in its relation with its Bidder(s) and 
Contractor(s). 
 
AND WHEREAS to meet the purpose aforesaid both the parties have agreed to enter into this Integrity 
Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “Integrity Pact” or “Pact”), the terms and conditions of which shall also 
be read as integral part and parcel of the Tender/Bid documents and Contract between the parties. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of mutual covenants contained in this Pact, the parties hereby agree as 
follows and this Pact witnesses as under:

Article 1: Commitment of the Principal/Owner
1) 
The Principal/Owner commits itself to take all measures necessary to prevent corruption and to 
observe the following principles:
(a) 
No employee of the Principal/Owner, personally or through any of his/her family members, 
will in connection with the Tender, or the execution of the Contract, demand, take a promise 
for or accept, for self or third person, any material or immaterial benefit which the person is 
not legally entitled to.
(b) 
The Principal/Owner will, during the Tender process, treat all Bidder(s) with equity and 
reason. The Principal/Owner will, in particular, before and during the Tender process, 
provide to all Bidder(s) the same information and will not provide to any Bidder(s) 
confidential / additional information through which the Bidder(s) could obtain an advantage 
in relation to the Tender process or the Contract execution.
(c) 
The Principal/Owner shall endeavor to exclude from the Tender process any person, whose 
conduct in the past has been of biased nature.
2) 
If the Principal/Owner obtains information on the conduct of any of its employees which is a criminal 
offence under the Indian Penal code (IPC)/Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (PC Act) or is in 
violation of the principles herein mentioned or if there be a substantive suspicion in this regard, the 
Principal/Owner will inform the Chief Vigilance Officer and in addition can also initiate disciplinary 
actions as per its internal laid down policies and procedures.
Article 2: Commitment of the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s)
1) 
It is required that each Bidder/Contractor (including their respective officers, employees and agents) 
adhere to the highest ethical standards, and report to the Government / Department all suspected 
acts of fraud or corruption or Coercion or Collusion of which it has knowledge or becomes aware, 
during the tendering process and throughout the negotiation or award of a contract.
2) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) commits himself to take all measures necessary to prevent 
corruption. He commits himself to observe the following principles during his participation in the 
Tender process and during the Contract execution:
a) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other person or firm, offer, 
promise or give to any of the Principal/Owner’s employees involved in the Tender process or 
execution of the Contract or to any third person any material or other benefit which he/she is 
not legally entitled to, in order to obtain in exchange any advantage of any kind whatsoever 
during the Tender process or during the execution of the Contract.
b) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not enter with other Bidder(s) into any undisclosed 
agreement or understanding, whether formal or informal. This applies in particular to prices, 
specifications, certifications, subsidiary contracts, submission or non-submission of bids or 
any other actions to restrict competitiveness or to cartelize in the bidding process.
c) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not commit any offence under the relevant IPC/PC Act. 
Further the Bidder(s)/Contract(s) will not use improperly, (for the purpose of competition or 
personal gain), or pass on to others, any information or documents provided by the 
Principal/Owner as part of the business relationship, regarding plans, technical proposals 
and business details, including information contained or transmitted electronically.
d) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) of foreign origin shall disclose the names and addresses of 
agents/representatives in India, if any. Similarly, Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) of Indian 
Nationality shall disclose names and addresses of foreign agents/representatives, if any. 
Either the Indian agent on behalf of the foreign principal or the foreign principal directly

could bid in a tender but not both. Further, in cases where an agent participates in a tender on 
behalf of one manufacturer, he shall not be allowed to quote on behalf of another 
manufacturer along with the first manufacturer in a subsequent/parallel tender for the same 
item.
e) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will, when presenting his bid, disclose any and all payments he 
has made, is committed to or intends to make to agents, brokers or any other intermediaries 
in connection with the award of the Contract.
3) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not instigate third persons to commit offences outlined above or be 
an accessory to such offences.
4) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other person or firm indulge in 
fraudulent practice means a willful misrepresentation or omission of facts or submission of 
fake/forged documents in order to induce public official to act in reliance thereof, with the purpose 
of obtaining unjust advantage by or causing damage to justified interest of others and/or to 
influence the procurement process to the detriment of the Government interests.
5) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other person or firm use Coercive 
Practices (means the act of obtaining something, compelling an action or influencing a decision 
through intimidation, threat or the use of force directly or indirectly, where potential or actual injury 
may befall upon a person, his/ her reputation or property to influence their participation in the 
tendering process).
Article 3: Consequences of Breach
Without prejudice to any rights that may be available to the Principal/Owner under law or the Contract or 
its established policies and laid down procedures, the Principal/Owner shall have the following rights in 
case of breach of this Integrity Pact by the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) and the Bidder/ Contractor accepts and 
undertakes to respect and uphold the Principal/Owner’s absolute right:
1) 
If the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s), either before award or during execution of Contract has committed a 
transgression through a violation of Article 2 above or in any other form, such as to put his reliability 
or credibility in question, the Principal/Owner after giving 14 days’ notice to the contractor shall have 
powers to disqualify the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) from the Tender process or terminate/determine the 
Contract, if already executed or exclude the Bidder/Contractor from future contract award processes. 
The imposition and duration of the exclusion will be determined by the severity of transgression and 
determined by the Principal/Owner. Such exclusion may be forever or for a limited period as 
decided by the Principal/Owner.
2) 
Forfeiture of EMD/Performance Guarantee/Security Deposit: If the Principal/Owner has 
disqualified the Bidder(s) from the Tender process prior to the award of the Contract or 
terminated/determined the Contract or has accrued the right to terminate/determine the Contract 
according to Article 3(1), the Principal/Owner apart from exercising any legal rights that may have 
accrued to the Principal/Owner, may in its considered opinion forfeit the entire amount of Earnest 
Money Deposit, Performance Guarantee and Security Deposit of the Bidder/Contractor.
3) 
Criminal Liability: If the Principal/Owner obtains knowledge of conduct of a Bidder or Contractor, 
or of an employee or a representative or an associate of a Bidder or Contractor which constitutes 
corruption within the meaning of IPC Act, or if the Principal/Owner has substantive suspicion in this 
regard, the Principal/Owner will inform the same to law enforcing agencies for further investigation.
Article 4: Previous Transgression
1) 
The Bidder declares that no previous transgressions occurred in the last 5 years with any other 
Company in any country confirming to the anticorruption approach or with Central Government or 
State Government or any other Central/State Public Sector Enterprises in India that could justify his 
exclusion from the Tender process.

2) 
If the Bidder makes incorrect statement on this subject, he can be disqualified from the Tender process 
or action can be taken for banning of business dealings/ holiday listing of the Bidder/Contractor as 
deemed fit by the Principal/ Owner.
3) 
If the Bidder/Contractor can prove that he has resorted / recouped the damage caused by him and 
has installed a suitable corruption prevention system, the Principal/Owner may, at its own 
discretion, revoke the exclusion prematurely.
Article 5: Equal Treatment of all Bidders/Contractors/Subcontractors
1) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) undertake(s) to demand from all subcontractors a commitment in 
conformity with this Integrity Pact. The Bidder/Contractor shall be responsible for any violation(s) of 
the principles laid down in this agreement/Pact by any of its Sub-contractors/sub-vendors.
2) 
The Principal/Owner will enter into Pacts on identical terms as this one with all Bidders and 
Contractors.
3) 
The Principal/Owner will disqualify Bidders, who do not submit, the duly signed Pact between the 
Principal/Owner and the bidder, along with the Tender or violate its provisions at any stage of the 
Tender process, from the Tender process.
Article 6- Duration of the Pact
This Pact begins when both the parties have legally signed it. It expires for the Contractor/Vendor 09 
Months after the completion of work under the contract or till the continuation of defect liability period, 
whichever is more and for all other bidders, till the Contract has been awarded. 
 
If any claim is made/lodged during the time, the same shall be binding and continue to be valid despite 
the lapse of this Pacts as specified above, unless it is discharged/determined by the Competent Authority, 
I.I.T. Jodhpur.
Article 7- Other Provisions
1) 
This Pact is subject to Indian Law, place of performance and jurisdiction is the Headquarters of the 
Division of the Principal/Owner, who has floated the Tender.
2) 
 Changes and supplements need to be made in writing. Side agreements have not been made.
3) 
If the Contractor is a partnership or a consortium, this Pact must be signed by all the partners or by 
one or more partner holding power of attorney signed by all partners and consortium members. In 
case of a Company, the Pact must be signed by a representative duly authorized by board resolution.
4) 
Should one or several provisions of this Pact turn out to be invalid; the remainder of this Pact remains 
valid. In this case, the parties will strive to come to an agreement to their original intensions.
5) 
It is agreed terms and conditions that any dispute or difference arising between the parties with 
regard to the terms of this Integrity Agreement / Pact, any action taken by the Owner/Principal in 
accordance with this Integrity Agreement/ Pact or interpretation thereof shall not be subject to 
arbitration.
Article 8- LEGAL AND PRIOR RIGHTS
All rights and remedies of the parties hereto shall be in addition to all the other legal rights and remedies 
belonging to such parties under the Contract and/or law and the same shall be deemed to be cumulative 
and not alternative to such legal rights and remedies aforesaid. For the sake of brevity, both the Parties 
agree that this Integrity Pact will have precedence over the Tender/Contact documents with regard any of 
the provisions covered under this Integrity Pact.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have signed and executed this Integrity Pact at the place and date first 
above mentioned in the presence of following witnesses:
............................................................... 
(For and on behalf of Principal/Owner) 
 
................................................................. 
(For and on behalf of Bidder/Contractor) 
 
WITNESSES:
(signature, name and address)
(signature, name and address)

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Jodhpur
Percentage Rate Tender & Contract for Works
Tender for the work of: Repair and maintenance of electrical infrastructure of IIT Jodhpur.
Sub Head: - Electrical Work.
i. 
To be submitted online as per tender notice through website www.eprocure.gov.in to Engineer 
in-charge, IIT Jodhpur.
ii. 
Online Bids to be opened in presence of tenderers / their authorized representatives who may be 
present in the Office of Stores and Purchase/OIE, IIT Jodhpur.
TENDER
I/We have read and examined the notice inviting tender, schedule, A, B, C, D, E & F Specifications 
applicable, Drawings & Designs, General Rules and Directions, Conditions of Contract, clauses of 
contract, Special conditions, Schedule of Rate & other documents and Rules referred to in the conditions 
of contract and all other contents in the tender document for the work. 
 
I/We hereby tender for the execution of the work specified for I.I.T. Jodhpur, within the time specified 
in Schedule ‘F’ viz., schedule of quantities and in accordance in all respect with the specifications, 
designs, drawing and instructions in writing referred to in Rule-1 of General Rules and Directions and 
in Clause 11 of the Conditions of contract and with such materials as are provided for, by, and in 
respect of accordance with, such conditions so far as applicable. 
 
We agree to keep the tender open for Ninety (90) days from the date of opening of bid. 
 
A sum of as per tender notice is hereby forwarded in Banker Cheque or Demand Draft or Fixed Deposit 
receipt of a schedule bank drawn in favour of IIT Jodhpur earnest money. If I/We, fail to furnish the 
prescribed performance guarantee within prescribed period. I/We agree that the I.I.T. Jodhpur or his 
successors, in office shall without prejudice to any other right or remedy, be at liberty to forfeit the said 
earnest money absolutely. Further, if I/We fail to commence work as specified, I/We agree that The 
I.I.T. Jodhpur or the successors in office shall without prejudice to any other right or remedy available 
in law, be at liberty to forfeit the said earnest money and the performance guarantee absolutely, 
otherwise the said earnest money shall be retained by him towards security deposit to execute all the 
works referred to in the tender documents upon the terms and conditions contained or referred to those 
in excess of that limit at the rates to be determined in accordance with the provision contained in Clause 
12.2 and 12.3 of the tender form. 
 
Further, I/We agree that in case of forfeiture of Earnest Money & Performance Guarantee as aforesaid. 
I/We shall be debarred for participation in the re-tendering process of the work. 
 
I/We undertake and confirm that eligible similar work(s) has/have not been got executed through 
another contractor on back to back basis. Further that, if such a violation comes to the notice of 
Department, then I/We shall be debarred for tendering in I.I.T. Jodhpur in future forever. Also, if such a 
violation comes to the notice of Department before date of start of work, the Engineer-in-Charge shall 
be free to forfeit the entire amount of Earnest Money Deposit/Performance Guarantee. 
 
I/We hereby declare that I/We shall treat the tender documents drawings and other records connected 
with the work as secret/confidential documents and shall not communicate information/derived there 
from to any person other than a person to whom I/We am/are authorized to communicate the same or 
use the information in any manner prejudicial to the safety of the State.

Dated: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature of Contractor 
Postal Address

ACCEPTANCE
The above tender (as modified by you as provided in the letters mentioned hereunder) is
accepted by me for and on behalf of I.I.T. Jodhpur for a sum of Rs. (Rupees ……………..…
The letters referred to below form part of this contract agreement:
For & on behalf of IIT Jodhpur
Signature ………………………………..
Date……………. 
 
 
 
 
Designation ……………………………..

PROFORMA OF SCHEDULES
3) I.I.T.J
S. No. Description of item Quantity Rates in figures &
words at which the
material will be
charged to the
Contractor Place of issue
S. No. Description Hire charges per day Place of Issue
PROFORMA OF SCHEDULES
SCHEDULE ‘A’
Schedule of quantities (enclosed)
SCHEDULE ‘B’
Schedule of materials to be issued to the contractor.
SCHEDULE ‘C’
Tools and plants to be hired by the contractor
SCHEDULE ‘D’
Extra schedule for specific requirements/document for the work, if any.
SCHEDULE ‘E’
Reference to General Conditions of contract: General Conditions of contract for CPWD: GCC 2023 for 
maintenance Works, Form-7 for CPWD works as amended up to last date of submission of bid.
Name of work: Repair and maintenance of electrical infrastructure of IIT Jodhpur.
Sub Head: Upgradation Work.
(i) 
Estimated cost of work 
: 
As per Tender Notice
(ii) 
Earnest Money 
: 
As per Tender Notice
(iii) 
Performance Guarantee 
: 
As per Tender Notice
(iv) 
Security Deposit 
: 
2.5% of the gross amount of each running and final bill till 
the sum deducted will amount to security deposit of 2.5% of the 
tendered amount of the work.

Officer inviting tender Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur.
Maximum percentage for quantity of
items of work to be executed beyond
which rates are to be determined in
accordance with Clauses 12.2 & 12.3 See Below.
Engineer-in-charge Assistant Executive Engineer (Electrical-1). Assistant Executive Engineer (Electrical-1).
Accepting Authority Director, IIT Jodhpur.
Percentage on cost of materials and
labor to cover all overhead & profits 15%
Standard schedule of Rates DSR 2025 (E &M) with up-to-date correction slips and
Department Office of Infrastructure Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
Standard IITJ contract Form General Conditions of contract for CPWD for
(i) Time allowed for submission of Performance guarantee,
Programme Chart (Time and Progress) and applicable labour
licenses, registration with EPFO, ESIC and BOCW Welfare Board
including Provident Fund Code No. or proof of applying thereof
from date of issue of letter of acceptance. 07 Days
(ii) Maximum allowable extension with late fee@ 0.1% per day of
performance guarantee amount beyond the period provided in (i)
above 07 Days
Authority for fixing Compensation under Clause 2 Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur.
Whether clause 2A is applicable Not applicable
Number of days from the date of issue of letter of
acceptance for reckoning date of start of start
milestone(s) as per table given below: 10 Days
SI
No. Description of Milestone (Physical) Time Allowed in days
(from the date of
requirement) Amount to be
deducted in case of
non-achievement of
SCHEDULE ‘F’

1. Day to day complaints. 02 Days or 48 Hours 100/- complaint.
2. Day to day complaints. 05 Days or 120 Hours 300/- complaint.
3. New work requirement. 05 Days or 120 Hours 1000/- requirement.
Time allowed for execution of work 01 Year.
(i) Extension of time Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur
(ii) Rescheduling of milestones Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur
(iii) Shifting of date of start in case of delay in
handing over of site Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur
Clause applicable - Computerized Measurement Book (CMB)/
Electronic Measurement Book (EMB)
Gross work to be done together with net payment
/adjustment of advances for material collected, if
any, since the last such payment for being eligible
to interim payment Rs. Ten Lacs or as mutually agreed by both the
parties.
Clause 10B Not Applicable
Whether Clause 10 B (ii) shall be applicable No
Component of labour expressed as percentage of
value of work 25 %
Clause 10CC escalation clause Not Applicable
Component of civil (except materials covered under Xm..........%

expressed as percent of total value of work. Y.......... %
expressed as percent of total value of work. Z.......... %
Specifications to be followed for execution of work CPWD specifications 2019 Vol-1&2 for civil and
Part-I Internal 2023 and Part-II External 2023 for
electrical works with upto date correction slips &
manufacturers specifications & NIT
Type of work Repair and maintenance of electrical
12.2. & 12.3 Deviation Limit beyond which clauses
shall apply for building work As per CPWD Manual.
Competent Authority for deciding reduced rates Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur
1. Hydra and scaffolding for streetlight and
internal double height light repairing etc. as
required.
2. Grinder, drilling machine.
3. Mud Pump with pipes.
4. Welding machine.
5. All the machines, tools and safety
equipment required by Electrician, Lineman,
Operator, Helper etc;
6. Any other equipment as per requirement of
work; As & when required within 24 Hours.
7. Screwdriver set & Plier set- 01 Set
8. Tester set- 01 Set (For every operator and electrician);
Settlement of dispute by conciliation and
arbitration Director, Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

S.
No. Requirement of Technical
Staff Minimum
Experience
(Years) Designation of Technical Staff Rate at which
recovery shall be
made from the
contractor in the
event of not
fulfilling provision
of clause
Qualification Number
1. Graduate
Engineer or
Diploma
Engineer 1 2 or 5
respectively Project Manager cum
Planning/Quality/Site/Billing
Engineer Rs. 15000/- per
month
(i) Schedule/statement for determining theoretical
quantity of cement & bitumen on the basis of Delhi
Schedule of Rates DSR 2023 with correction slips issued
upto last date of submission of bid
(ii) Variations permissible on theoretical quantities
a. Cement for works estimated cost put to tender
not more than Rs. 25 Lakhs 3 % plus/minus
(i) For works with estimated cost put to tender
more than Rs. 25 Lakhs 2 % plus/minus
b. Bitumen for all works 2.5% plus only & nil on minus side
c. Steel reinforcement and structural steel section
for each diameter, section and category 2% plus/minus
d. All other materials Nil
Excess beyond permissible limits As per CPWD norms
Less use beyond the permissible limit As per CPWD norms

BANK GUARANTEE BOND I.I.T.J BANK GUARANTEE BOND I.I.T.J
Form of Earnest Money Deposit
Bank Guarantee Bond
WHEREAS, contractor .............. 
………………………... (Name of contractor) (hereinafter called “the
contractor”) has submitted his tender dated (date) for the work of (name of work) (hereinafter called “the 
Tender”)
KNOW ALL PEOPLE by these presents that we ...................................... …. (name of bank) having our 
registered office at 
........................................................................................ (hereinafter called “the Bank”) are
bound unto ..................................................................................................... ................................................... 
(Name and division of Engineer) (hereinafter called “the Engineer-in-Charge”) in the sum of Rs. 
......................... (Rs. In words .................................................) for which payment well and truly to be made to 
the said Engineer-in-Charge the Bank binds itself, his successors and assigns by these presents. 
 
SEALED with the Common Seal of the said Bank this .................day of ................. 20........THE CONDITIONS 
of this obligation are: 
 
(1) 
If after tender opening the Contractor withdraws, his tender during the period of validity of tender 
(including extended validity of tender) specified in the Form of Tender;
(2) 
If the contractor having been notified of the acceptance of his tender by the Engineer-in-Charge:
(a) 
fails or refuses to execute the Form of Agreement in accordance with the Instructions to 
contractor, if required;
OR
(b) 
fails or refuses to furnish the Performance Guarantee, in accordance with the provisions of 
tender document and Instructions to contractor,
OR
(c) 
fails or refuses to start the work, in accordance with the provisions of the contract and 
Instructions to contractor,
OR
(d) 
fails or refuses to submit fresh Bank Guarantee of an equal amount of this Bank Guarantee, 
against Security Deposit after award of contract.
We undertake to pay to the Engineer-in-Charge either up to the above amount or part thereof upon receipt 
of his first written demand, without the Engineer-in-Charge having to substantiates his demand, provided 
that in his demand the Engineer-in-Charge will note that the amount claimed by his is due to him owing to 
the occurrence of one or any of the above conditions, specifying the occurred condition or conditions.
This Guarantee will remain in force up to and including the date* ............. after the deadline for submission 
of tender as such deadline is stated in the Instructions to contractor or as it may be extended by the 
Engineer-in-Charge, notice of which extension(s) to the Bank is hereby waived. Any demand in respect of 
this Guarantee should reach the Bank not later than the above date.
DATE .............
SIGNATURE OF THE BANK
WITNESS ................ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SEAL
(SIGNATURE, NAME AND ADDRESS)
*Date to be worked out on the basis of validity period of 6 months from last date of receipt of tender.

ADDITIONAL TERMS & CONDITIONS
1. 
 All the work shall be carried out as per CPWD General specifications for Electrical works, Part-I 
(Internal)-2013, Part-II (External)- 2005 should also comply with relevant provisions of the Indian 
Electricity Rules /Acts as applicable, amended up to date. Where specifications are silent, the 
decision of Engineer-in-Charge shall be final and binding on contractor
2. 
The work is to be carried out to the entire satisfaction of the Engineer-in-charge and his authorized 
representative
3. 
In case of any complaint against any of the personnel of the contractor, the said person will have to 
be replaced immediately by the contractor and the decision of the Engineer In-charge, IIT Jodhpur, 
in this regard shall be final and binding on the contractor.
4. 
In 
case 
of 
any 
dis-obedience 
by 
the 
staff 
of 
the 
contractor 
with 
the
occupant’s/authorities/ Engineer-in-charge and his authorized representatives, the contractor shall 
be responsible fully for such consequences and such staff shall be removed from the site 
immediately.
5. 
Agency/ Firm shall abide by all laws of the land including, labour laws, Companies Act, Tax 
deduction liabilities, welfare measures of its employees and all other statutory obligations that enjoin 
in such cases and are not enumerated and defined herein, through any such onus shall be the 
exclusive responsibility of the Agency/ Firm, and it shall not involve the Institute in any way 
whatsoever.
6. 
Institute reserves the right to require the Agency/ Firm to remove any person deployed by the 
company, without assigning any reasons/notice. This will be without prejudice to the right of the 
Agency/ Firm to remove any of its own employees deployed in the Institute.
7. 
It would be responsibility of Agency/Firm to arrange all permission/ approvals from all local 
bodies/statutory bodies as per applicable law in vogue. Nothing extra shall be paid on this account 
by the Institute.
8. 
The Agency/ Firm shall be responsible for all injury and accidents to people employed by him while 
on duty. It is desirable that all employees are covered under insurance cover.
9. 
All employees of the Agency/Firm shall be issued Identity Cards bearing their photographs. 
Photographs for identity cards should be provided by the Agency/ Firm at their own cost. The ID 
Cards will be issued by the Agency/ Firm. These will be countersigned by the IIT Jodhpur Security 
Officer/ Engineer of Office of Infrastructure Engineering.
10. 
The Agency/Firm shall be responsible for the good conduct and behavior of its employees. If any 
employee of the Agency/ Firm is found misbehaving with the supervisory staff or other staff 
members of the Institute the Agency/ Firm shall terminate the services of such employees forthwith 
at their own risk and responsibility. The Agency/ Firm shall issue necessary Instructions to its 
employees to act upon the instructions given by the supervisory staff of the Institute.
11. 
When a register gets completed, it will be handed over to the concerned J.E. / A.E. It will not be 
returned to the contractor and the same will remain the property of the department.
12. 
The dismantled material which has scrap valve needs to be handed over to Institute.
13. 
In the event of any loss being occurred to the Institute during the course of execution of work, on 
account of the negligence of duty by the Agency/ Firm’ and their employees, the Agency/ Firm 
shall make good the loss sustained to the Institute either by replacement or on payment of the 
adequate compensation as per decision of Engineer-in-charge.
14. 
The Agency/ Firm shall not appoint sub-Agency/Firm to carry out any obligation under the 
contract.
15. 
The Agency/ Firm will take day-to-day instructions from the supervisory staff of the institute and 
shall keep diary for the same.
16. 
The labours engaged by agency shall not be below age 18 years and no worker will be allowed to 
stay in the Institute campus.

17. 
The Agency/Firm shall maintain an Inspection Book as prescribed, which will be made available to 
supervisory staff of the Institute. Fault/observation record there on shall be attended to 
immediately.
18. 
Agency/ Firms will apply to the Labour Commissioner to obtain a Labour License as applicable, and 
nothing extra shall be paid to Agency by IIT Jodhpur. Agency/ Firms will submit a copy of license to 
officer-in-charge of IIT Jodhpur.
19. 
The Agency/ Firm would sign and give an undertaking as per Performa every month for 
compliance of the provision of Contract Labour Act. Rule and other Law as applicable.
20. 
Any dispute arising out of and in relation to this agreement shall be referred to the arbitration by 
sole arbitrator to be appointed by Director of the Institute. The arbitration would be conducted and 
governed by and under the provisions of Arbitration Act, 1996. Any legal dispute will be subject to 
jurisdiction of Jodhpur Courts only and no other court shall have the jurisdiction refer IITJ/CPWD 
GCC form 7/8 in regard.
21. 
IIT Jodhpur is a ‘No SMOKING ZONE’ The Agency/ Firm should ensure that his employees DO 
NOT SMOKE while working in the IIT Campus. They will also not indulge in drinking alcohol or 
any other intoxicants. They will not consume drugs and eat pan/ Khaini / tobacco etc. they will not 
play cards or indulge in gambling on campus.
22. 
The Agency/ Firm shall keep himself fully informed of all acts and laws of the Central and State 
Government, all orders, decrees of statutory bodies, tribunals having any jurisdiction or authority, 
which in any manner may affect their engaged or employed and anything related to carry out the 
work. All the rules & regulations & byelaws lay down by the local bodies and any other statutory 
bodies shall be adhered to, by the Agency/ Firm, during the execution of work.
23. 
Agency/ Firm must employ adult and skilled personnel only. Employment of child labour shall lead 
to the termination of the contract at the risk and cost of the Agency/ Firm. Agency/ Firm shall 
deploy/ engage reliable persons at client after proper character and police verification and impose 
any conditions as per prevailing contractual labour laws for such engagements, take disciplinary 
action or reward any person at work etc., at its sole costs, risks and responsibilities.
24. 
Agency/ Firm shall deal with and settle the matters related with unions and shall make sure that no 
labour disputes / problems are referred to Client. It shall totally indemnify Client in this regard.
25. 
Agency/ Firm should at all times indemnify Client against all claims, damages or compensation 
under the provisions of payment of wages Act, 1936; Minimum Wages Act, 1948; Employer’s 
Liability Act, 1938 ; the workmen compensation Act, 1932 ; Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ; Maternity 
Benefit Act, 1961 ; or any modification thereof or any other law relating thereto and rules made 
hereunder from time. Client will not own any responsibility in this regard.
26. 
All statutory & mandatory deductions as per Government of India & Rajasthan State Government 
norms shall be deducted from each running bill & final bill of agency/ firm.
27. 
GST shall be applicable in this contract. NIT and the rules of Govt. of India as notified from time to 
time shall be followed in items of GST. Presently, 18% GST has been considered in this tender and 
agency has to quote the rates inclusive of GST.
28. 
No escalation clause i.e, clause 10CC of IITJ/CPWD GCC form 7/8 is applicable in this NIT/ 
Contract.
29. 
Non-Judicial stamp paper worth Rs. 10/- (Ten Rupees only) will be submitted by contractor for 
execution of agreement between both the parties.
30. 
No T & P would be supplied by the Institute and contractor will have to make his own arrangement 
for the required work.
31. 
The contractors are advised to get acquainted with the proposed work including specifications & its 
site and additional conditions carefully before quoting. No claim of any sort shall be entertained or 
account of any site conditions and ignorance of specifications & additional conditions. The work shall 
be carried out as per the availability of site.
32. 
The rates quoted by the contractor shall be taken as net and nothing extra shall be paid on any account 
i.e Royalty, Cartage, GST & stacking of material required at places etc. The rates for different items of

work shall apply for Heights & Depths, Leads & Lifts unless otherwise specified in the agreement or 
specifications applicable in the agreement.
33. 
The agency shall execute the material/items as per list of approved make given in tender document.
34. 
The sample of material required in the work brought at site shall be got approved from Engineer –in-
Charge before use in execution of work.
35. 
All the required materials shall be checked & approved by the Engineer-in-charge on receipt of the 
same at site before use and rejected material is to be removed from the site immediately.
36. 
The sample material required for Testing shall be provided at free of cost by the contractor. Testing 
charges if any shall be borne by the IIT Jodhpur if satisfactory report and if test results are 
unsatisfactory then testing charges shall be deducted from bills of contractor. All other expenditure to 
be incurred on taking sample, conveyance, packing etc. shall be borne by the contractor.
37. 
The contractor shall submit a detailed program of work within 7 days of the date of award of work. 
The Engineer – in- Charge can modify the program and the contractors have to work accordingly.
38. 
The contractor shall make his own arrangement to get permission with respect to trucks from the 
Traffic Police.
39. 
No payment shall be made to contractor for any damage caused by the rain or any other natural 
causes whatsoever during the execution of work.
40. 
Some restrictions may be imposed by the security staff of IIT Jodhpur etc. on the work and on 
movement of labour & material. No labour camp/ huts shall be allowed in IIT Jodhpur. The 
contractor shall make his own arrangement for labour huts outside the campus. However, 
constructions of cement godown and Chowkidar’s hut in the Campus shall be permitted. The 
contractor shall be bound to follow all such restrictions/ instructions and nothing shall be payable on 
this account.
41. 
The contractor shall be fully responsible for the safe custody of the material issued or brought at site 
by him for doing the work.
42. 
The Malba / Garbage generated at site due to construction activities shall be removed from the site 
immediately & shall be disposed off by the contractor to the approved dumping site of Jodhpur 
Municipal Corporation and all statutory approvals from local bodies shall be the sole responsibility of 
contractor.
43. 
The contractor shall clean the site thoroughly of scaffolding materials, rubbish, equipment’s left out of 
his work & dress the site around the building to the complete satisfaction of the Engineer-in-Charge 
before the work is treated as completed.
44. 
Security deposit @2.5% will be deducted for entire gross work done including extension period if 
any, from each installment however, earnest money deposit will be adjusted to security deposit.
45. 
1% (one percent) cess towards labour welfare fund or as applicable, income tax as applicable and 
other taxes/ statutory recoveries as applicable will be deducted from the bill of contractor.
46. 
Water charges @ 1% and Electricity charges @ 0.5 % of gross work done shall be deducted from bills 
of contractor if electricity and water provided by IIT Jodhpur for this work.
47. 
Income tax/other taxes/statutory recoveries as applicable will be deducted from the bill.
48. 
Agency must take proper safety measures during the execution of work.
49. 
IITJ/CPWD GCC form 7/8 shall form part of NIT and the bidder shall go through GCC before 
quoting rates and the same shall be deemed to be accepted by bidder if he participates in the tender.
50. 
ESI & EPF shall be reimbursed as per norms on production of original receipt of ESI & EPF from 
contractor specific to this work.
51. 
All the statutory obligations which is not covered in the bid document shall be reimbursed on actual 
basis after submission of proof of payment.
52. 
The contractor should arrange his own tools and plants necessary for maintenance of the work. 
Nothing extra shall be paid on account of tools and plants required for the maintenance.
53. 
Boarding and lodging of the maintenance staff of the contractor will be the responsibility of the 
contractor.

54. 
The contractor shall authorize his representative to be responsible for receiving the required 
material
from the Department for day to day maintenance work & dismantle material is to 
be return back to the
department daily.
55. 
The Staff Employed by the contractor shall be at the sole responsibility and liability of contractor and 
they will be employee of the contractor and all expenses in connection 
with these Employees shall
be borne by the contractor. Department shall not bear any liability whatsoever for these staff. The 
contractor shall provide at his own cost all statuary benefits to the staff employed by the contractor 
and department will not entertain any liability whatsoever on this account.
56. 
The contractor shall be solely responsible for compliance with various statutory obligations (including 
the financial liabilities) under the contractor labour regulation minimum wages act and other 
applicable laws and rules framed there from time to time.
57. 
The work is annual repair and maintenance of electrical infrastructure, thereby, validity for the work 
shall be 01 year from the date of commencement. Accordingly, the contractor shall attend the 
complaints as and when required basis throughout the year, if the work/complaint is not attended 
within the given timeframe, then a penalty/recovery shall be imposed as under: -
▪ If complaint is not attended within 48 Hours/ 2 days after lodge @ 100/- per
▪ If complaint is not attended within 120 Hours/ 5 Days after lodge @ 300/- per
58. 
IIT Jodhpur provides internet connection for accessing email or software module for maintenance 
activity subject to availability of network connectivity on chargeable basis as per Institute prevailing 
norms (Tentative amount Rs. 6000/- for six months). However, if network is not available in the 
provided space for maintenance activity, contractor shall have to arrange all the material required for 
internet connectivity.
59. 
IIT Jodhpur shall provide the electricity connection for maintenance office and maintenance work 
subject to availability of power on chargeable basis as per institute prevailing norms. Necessary cable, 
energy meter and other accessories required for metering connection shall be provided by the 
contractor with due consent from Engineer In charge.
60. 
Bad workmanship whenever noticed and conveyed to the contractor, verbally or expressed, shall be 
rectified by the contractor at his own cost and to the satisfaction of the Engineer- in- Charge.
61. 
Inventory list of material used for maintenance shall be prepared and submitted by the contractor at 
the time of submission of bill along with detail location of Institute premises. Bill shall be prepared on 
actual inventory used at site for maintenance/new work. If the items which are stored/brought at site 
for maintenance but could not be used at site during the contract time, the same shall be taken over by 
IITJ as per discretion of Engineer In-charge and accordingly payment shall be made to the contracotr.
62. 
If any employee of the contractor goes to any court/conciliation officer/labour court or another legal 
authority etc. in or anywhere in India at any time under this contract the department shall not be 
made a party of it in any way by the employees of the contractor or by contractor himself. This fact 
should be clearly and legally told to all his employees by the contractor, and the contractor shall be 
fully responsible for all losses/damages, misconduct etc. arise on this contract.
63. 
The contractor shall pay all legal wages/dues/allowances to all his employees always covered under 
this contract and can quote his rates accordingly in this tender/offer. The contractor should not 
deny such things to any of his employees on the pretext that such things are not covered by the 
present contract/agreement.
64. 
The cleaning of the entire system components, its various equipment’s and Components, control 
panels, rooms etc. shall always be the responsibility of the contractor. All the materials needed for it 
like brooms, cleaning powder, dhotis, cotton waste etc., shall be arranged by the contractor at his own 
cost.
65. 
The contractor shall give his telephones nos. both landline & mobile, for any emergency complaints 
and any change in them shall be informed to the department immediately.
66. 
The staff employed by the contractor shall in no case will be eligible for absorbing in the department.

67. 
The Contractor shall depute staff with minimum qualification and experience as detailed here under 
in consultation with Engineer –in charge with prior permission: -
• Wiremen/technician /Electrician: - Academic Qualification: 10th Passed along with Valid
Electrical License or 2-year Govt. Recognized I.T.I from Electrician/Wireman Trade with Two 
years’ experience in relevant field.
• Khallasi - Khallasi should be physically fit and must have one-year experience in the relevant
68. 
Before the start of contract, the contractor is bound to submit the following details of the workers 
proposed to be engaged by him:
• 
Name and Postal Address.
• 
Photograph with specimen signature, addhar card/Voter ID etc as proof of identity.
• 
Qualification and Experience.
69. 
The Contractor is fully responsible for the workmen deployed at site under this contract for safety, 
accident, any mishap occurs or any other unwanted misery at site. IITJ is not responsible/liable for 
any kind of compensation, treatment or any kind of favour.
70. 
The work shall be done in full co-operation with other agencies working at site. The staff deputed 
shall be soft-spoken, well-behaved and physically fit.
71. 
Contractor has to ensure Mobile phone & sufficient balance amount of recharge value with employees 
deputed at site for proper communication. He has to give their mobile number to the IITJ Engineers 
concerned, nothing extra will be paid on this account.
72. 
The department is at liberty of discontinuing the contract if the performance is not found satisfactory, 
in accordance with the terms and conditions without assigning any reason.
73. 
Some of the Installation is under Defect Liability Period, it is the duty of contractor to provide the 
details of defect occurred of non-consumable items immediately to IITJ Engineer of work. The DLP 
Agency shall provide the replacement of defective material and contractor must install it on timely 
basis without any extra cost.
74. 
Contractor should provide Uniform 2 sets for summer and 2 sets for winter to all workers. 
Nothing
extra shall be paid by department on this ground. All workers of the contractor shall come in uniform. 
The name of worker shall also be displayed on the uniform, no worker shall be allowed to enter into 
IIT Jodhpur premises without Uniform, failing which recovery Rs. 500 per person per month shall be 
recovered from the contractor’s 
bill. Color, shade and pattern of uniform shall be decided by Engineer-
in charge.
75. 
Institute reserves the right to remove /reduced/or increases the scope of work at any time.
76. 
GCC and other relevant clauses / manuals of CPWD shall be part of this Tender document unless and 
otherwise specified.
77. 
Material make list should be as per approved material given in the tender, until or unless individual 
items make/model no. specified in BOQ.
78. 
Final payment shall be made only after satisfactory completion of work up to the satisfaction of 
Engineer in-charge.
79. 
Failure to comply with any of the above clauses or due to unsatisfactory performance as observed by 
Engineer-in-charge, the contract shall be terminated at any stage without assigning any reason thereof.

S.
No. Material Approved makes
1 LT panels / boards, Feeder
panels. MILESTONE, TRICOLITE, ADLEC, ADVANCE PANEL
& SWITCHGEAR Ltd., PRISTINE, STERLING
GENERATOR, APPLICATION CONTROL PANEL,
ENGINEERS & ENGINEERS.
2 MCCBS SIEMENS (BETA GUARD), L&T(AU), SCHNEIDER
(ACTI 9), LEGRAND (DX 3), HAGER
3 MCB, ELCB, RCCB, DB and
RCBO. Distribution board shall be
of the same make of MCB, ELCB,
RCCB, DB and RCBO. SIEMENS (BETA GUARD), L&T(AU), SCHNEIDER
(ACTI 9), LEGRAND (DX 3), HAGER
4 LT cables, armored/ unarmored
1.1 KV grade. UNISTAR, NATIONAL, RALLISON, KEI, HAVELLS
POLYCAB, RR KABEL
5 FRLS copper wires and cables, 1.1
KV grade UNISTAR, NATIONAL, RALLISON, KEI, HAVELLS,
POLYCAB, RR KABEL
6 Switch, Socket, fan regulator, GI
box, Face plate. LEGRAND (ARTEOR), SCHNEIDER (ZENCELO), MK
(ELEMENTS), HAGER (INSYSTA), CRABTREE
(MURANO),
7 Lugs and Ferrules DOWELLS, JAINSON, COMMEX, GRIPWELL, HENSEL,
DOWELL
8 Brass Compression Gland (Heavy
duty) COMMEX, GRIPWELL, HENSEL, DOWELL
9 Wall Fan HAVELLS (PLATINA), CG (HIFLO WAVE PLUS), BAJAJ
(ESTEEM), USHA (MAX AIR), ORIENT (WALL 47).
10 Cable Lugs & Thimbles DOWELL, ASIAN, ACTION
11 Telephone Tag Blocks with boxes KRONE, POUYET
12 PVC Conduits, PVC casing Patti,
flexible conduit, GI flexible
conduit and Accessories (ISI
Marked, Heavy duty) BEC, PRECISION, POLY-PACK, POLYCAB, SUPREME,
POLY PLAST,
13 MS Conduit and Pipes and
accessories BEC, AKG, M-KAY, STEEL CRAFT
14 PVC DLP trucking LEGRAND, HONEYWELL, SCHNEIDER,
15 Pipes and Accessories (ISI) TATA, JINDAL, SAIL
16 LED light fixtures (Street,
Landscape, Post top, Flood light, )
(OUTDOOR) SIGNIFY, CROMPTON, WIPRO, HAVELLS, SCHREDER,
LIGHTING TECHNOLOGIES, MUSCO, HALLIDAY,
THORN LIGHTING
17 LED Chip for Street /landscape
and LED Light Fixtures PHILIPS, CROMPTON, WIPRO, BAJAJ,
18 EXIT and Emergency Lights PHILIPS, CROMPTON, WIPRO, BAJAJ, PROLITE
19 CAT-6A CABLE TYCO, COMMSCOPE, R&M, MOLEX, PANDUIT,
SCHNEIDER, LEGRAND.
21 LED LIGHT FIXTURE (INDOOR) PHILIPS, CROMPTON, WIPRO, BAJAJ, SCHREDER,
HAVELLS, LT, MUSCO, HALLIDAY, THORN
LIGHTING
22 Selector Switch RISHAB – L&T, KAYCEE, SIEMENS, C&S, ABB
25 Photo Chromatic Switch BAJAJ, WIPRO, PHILIPS
LIST OF APPROVED MATERIALS (Electrical):

26 LED lights driver PHILIPS, CROMPTON, WIPRO, BAJAJ, SCHREDER,
HAVELLS, LT
27 Terminal Blocks and din rail
connector BCH, INDUSTRIAL CONTROL, JAINSON
28 Change Over Switch L&T, SOCOMEC, SIEMENS, HAGER, ABB
29 Bus bar JINDAL, INDALCO, CENTURY
30 GI pipes JINDAL, TATA, SAIL
31 Timers & Contactors to be
mounted in DB’s & street light
panel. L&T, SIEMENS, SCHNEIDER, HAGER, LEGRAND, ABB
32 MV Contactors/Timer/ Starters L&T, SIEMENS, SCHNEIDER, LEGRAND, ABB
33 Fan accessories HAVELLS, BAJAJ, CROMPTON, USHA or ISI MARKED.
34 kWh Meters (Electronic Digital
type) /Multifunction Meter
/Ammeter/ Voltmeter) SCHNEIDER(CONZERV), C&S, L&T, SIEMENS,
NEPTUNE, ABB, ELITE (442).
35 Indication Lamps/Push Button L&T, BCH, GE
36 BLDC Ceiling fan, Exhaust fan CROMPTON GREAVES, ORIENT, HAVELLS, USHA,
BAJAJ,
37 Cable Tray MEM, PROFAB, RICO, INDIATECH, RMCON,
LEGRAND
38 Raceway LEGRAND, MK, SCHNEIDER
39 Polycarbonate Junction Boxes HENSEL, CLIPSAL, MENEKKES
40 Fasteners HILTI, FISCHER, BOSCH, WUNH
41 TV Cable FINOLEX, HAVELLS, BELDON
42 Metal MCB’s enclosure LEGRAND, HAVELLS, HAGER, INDOASIAN, C&S
43 Chemical Earthing JEF ECOSAFE, ERICO, TEREC PLUS
44 DWC Pipe TIRUPATI, GEMINI, REX, TRICOLITE
45 Waterproof IP65 combined box HAVELLS, C&S, HAGER, SCHNEIDER, LEGRAND
46 Geyser accessories ISI marked.
47 Street Light GRP Poles SCHREDER, PHILIPS, BAJAJ, CREATIVE COMPOSITE,
AERON COMPOSITE
48 PU paints on street light GRP
poles AZKO NOBEL, ASIAN
49 Industrial socket outlet C&S, HAGER, SCHNEIDER, HAVELLS, LEGRAND,
INDOASIAN
50 Tools & tackle TAPARIA, L&T, PIE.
51. PPEs Kit HONEYWELL, KUSAM MECO, 3M, JOHANSON &
JOHANSON, KARAM.
Note: Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to add or delete any material and brands in the 
list of preferred material/brands on the recommendation of Engineer-In –charge.

S.
No. Description Qty Unit Unit Price Amount
I Supply and fixing of following material at IIT
1 Wiring for light point/fan point/exhaust fan point/
1.1 Group A 15.00 Point 1189.00 17835.00
1.2 Group B 30.00 Point 1362.00 40860.00
1.3 Group C 30.00 Point 1704.00 51120.00
2 Wiring for twin control with 1.5sqmm FRLS PVC 10.00 Point 1803.00 18030.00
3 Supplying and drawing following sizes of FRLS
4 Wiring for circuit/submain wiring along with
4.1 2x2.5 sqmm + 1x2.5 sq mm earth wire. 200.00 Metre 275.00 55000.00
4.2 2x4 sqmm + 1x4 sq mm earth wire. 500.00 Metre 334.00 167000.00
Schedule of Quantities

4.3 2x10 sqmm + 1x6 sq mm earth wire 300.00 Metre 570.00 171000.00
4.4 4x10 sqmm + 2x6 sq mm earth wire 500.00 Metre 1005.00 502500.00
4.5 4x16 sqmm + 2x6 sq mm earth wire 100.00 Metre 1365.00 136500.00
5 Supply and fixing of following sizes of medium
5.1 20mm 200.00 Metre 151.00 30200.00
5.2 25mm 800.00 Metre 168.00 134400.00
5.3 32mm 200.00 Metre 209.00 41800.00
5.4 40mm 100.00 Metre 257.00 25700.00
6 Supplying and fixing following sizes/modules,
GI Box alongwith modular base & cover plate for
modular switches in recess etc as required. Supplying and fixing following sizes/modules,
6.1 01 or 02 Module (75mm x 75mm) 50.00 Each 354.00 17700.00
6.2 03 Module (100mm x 75mm) 250.00 Each 384.00 96000.00
6.3 06 Module (200mm x 75mm) 250.00 Each 462.00 115500.00
6.4 08 Module (12mm x 125mm) 70.00 Each 517.00 36190.00
6.5 12 Module (200mm x 150mm) 5.00 Each 614.00 3070.00
7 Supplying and fixing following modular base &
7.1 01 or 02 Module 100.00 Each 156.00 15600.00
7.2 03 Module 400.00 Each 175.00 70000.00
7.3 06 Module 400.00 Each 207.00 82800.00
7.4 08 Module 100.00 Each 238.00 23800.00
7.5 12 Module 5.00 Each 301.00 1505.00
8 Supplying and fixing of following modular
8.1 5/6 amp switch 250.00 Each 121.00 30250.00
8.2 2 way 5/6 amp switch 50.00 Each 168.00 8400.00
8.3 15/16 amp switch 700.00 Each 176.00 123200.00
8.4 03 pin 5/6 amp socket outlet 250.00 Each 136.00 34000.00
8.5 6 pin 15/16 amp socket outlet 700.00 Each 219.00 153300.00
8.6 Bell push 50.00 Each 159.00 7950.00
9 Supplying and fixing two module stepped type
electronic fan regulator on the existing modular
plate switch box including connections but
excluding modular plate etc as required. Supplying and fixing two module stepped type 100.00 Each 402.00 40200.00
10 Providing and fixing following rating and
10.1 100Amp, 16KA, TPMCCB 2.00 Each 4003.00 8006.00
10.2 125Amp, 16KA, TPMCCB 1.00 Each 5103.00 5103.00
10.3 100Amp, 30KA, FPMCCB 2.00 Each 8127.00 16254.00

10.4 125Amp, 36KA, FPMCCB 1.00 Each 8644.00 8644.00
10.5 200Amp, 36KA, FPMCCB 1.00 Each 15206.00 15206.00
10.6 250Amp, 36KA, FPMCCB 1.00 Each 18372.00 18372.00
10.7 400Amp, 50KA, FPMCCB 1.00 Each 44663.00 44663.00
10.8 630Amp, 50KA, FPMCCB 1.00 Each 45108.00 45108.00
11 Supplying and fixing of following way, single
11.1 08 Way Double door 2.00 Each 2773.00 5546.00
11.2 12 Way Double door 2.00 Each 2871.00 5742.00
12 Supplying and fixing of following way,
12.1 06 way (4+18), Double Door. 2.00 Each 5299.00 10598.00
12.2 08 Way (4+24), Double Door. 2.00 Each 6337.00 12674.00
13 Supplying and fixing of following ways
13.1 04 Way (4+12), Double Door. 2.00 Each 7951.00 15902.00
13.2 08 Way (4+24), Double Door. 2.00 Each 10724.00 21448.00
14 Supplying and fixing 05A to 32A rating,
14.1 Single pole 60.00 Each 285.00 17100.00
14.2 Single pole and neutral 10.00 Each 643.00 6430.00
14.3 Double pole 15.00 Each 696.00 10440.00
14.4 Triple pole 20.00 Each 1070.00 21400.00
14.5 Triple Pole and neutral 25.00 Each 1301.00 32525.00
15 Supplying and fixing of following rating, double
15.1 40A 3.00 Each 2512.00 7536.00
15.2 63A 2.00 Each 2866.00 5732.00

16 Supplying and fixing of following rating, four
16.1 40A 2.00 Each 3452.00 6904.00
16.2 63A 2.00 Each 3597.00 7194.00
17 Supply and fixing of 20 amp, 240V, SPN 2.00 Each 1806.00 3612.00
18 Supply and fixing of 30 amp, 415V, TPN 3.00 Each 4358.00 13074.00
19 Earthing with G.I. earth pipe 4.5 metre long, 40 3.00 Each 7658.00 22974.00
20 Earthing with cooper earth plate 600mm x 3.00 Each 15004.00 45012.00
21 Providing and fixing 25 mm X 5 mm copperstrip 100.00 Meter 1638.00 163800.00
22 Providing and fixing 25 mm X 5 mm GI 100.00 Meter 755.00 75500.00
23 Providing and fixing 25 mm X 5 mm copper strip
on surface or in recess for connections etc. as
required. Providing and fixing 25 mm X 5 mm copper strip 150.00 Meter 1246.00 186900.00
24 Providing and fixing 25 mm X 5 mm GI strip on 150.00 Meter 287.00 43050.00
25 Excavation of the cable trenches in soft soil and 50.00 cum 830.00 41500.00

26 Supplying and laying of following size DWC
27 Supplying and making end termination with
27.1 3x10 sqmm (22mm) 2.00 Each 312.00 624.00
27.2 3x16 sqmm (25mm) 2.00 Each 326.00 652.00
27.3 3x25 sqmm (25mm) 2.00 Each 330.00 660.00
28 Supplying and making straight through joint
28.5 3.5 x 50sqmm 1.00 Each 2478.00 2478.00
29 LED Down lighter (SMD Type) (System lumen

29.1 12 -15 watt 800.00 Each 715.00 572000.00
29.2 18 watts 100.00 Each 920.00 92000.00
30 LED Panel light 2x2 ft. (System lumen efficacy

30.1 36 Watt 250.00 Each 2508.00 627000.00
31 LED Batten light (System lumen efficacy ≥105
31.1 18- 22 watt 3500.00 Each 681.00 2383500.00

31.2 40 watt 300.00 Each 721.00 216300.00
32 LED Street light fixture, powder coated pressure
32.1 40 watt 25.00 Each 1297.00 32425.00
32.2 45 watt 30.00 Each 1366.00 40980.00
32.3 72 watt 40.00 Each 1920.00 76800.00
33 LED Flood Light, powder coated pressure die
cast aluminium (System lumen efficacy ≥120 and
<135 lm/Watt) LED Flood Light, powder coated pressure die

33.1 100 Watt 15.00 Each 2467.00 37005.00
33.2 150 Watt 15.00 Each 3457.00 51855.00
34 Brush Less Direct Current (BLDC) Fan without
34.1 900mm, service value ≥ 5.1 CM/Min/Watt, air 15.00 Each 2560.00 38400.00
34.2 1200mm, service value ≥ 6.0 CM/Min/Watt, air 30.00 Each 2695.00 80850.00
34.3 1400mm, service value ≥ 6.0 CM/Min/Watt, air 25.00 Each 2727.00 68175.00

35 Supplying and laying/drawing of 3 core 1.5 200.00 Meter 148.00 29600.00
36 Supplying and laying/drawing of 03 core 4 200.00 Meter 294.00 58800.00
37 Supplying and laying/drawing of 03 core 6 200.00 Meter 421.00 84200.00
38 Supplying and laying/drawing of 04 core 25 50.00 Meter 2120.00 106000.00
39 Supplying and laying of 3 core 10 sqmm 200.00 Meter 208.00 41600.00
40 Supplying and laying of 3 core 16 sqmm 150.00 Meter 222.00 33300.00
41 Supplying and laying of 3.5 core 25 sqmm 150.00 Meter 323.00 48450.00
42 Supplying and laying of 3.5 core 35 sqmm 150.00 Meter 400.00 60000.00
43 Supplying and laying of 3.5 core 50 sqmm 20.00 Meter 530.00 10600.00
44 Supplying and laying of 3.5 core 70 sqmm 20.00 Meter 714.00 14280.00

45 Supplying and laying of 3.5 core 120 sqmm 10.00 Meter 1092.00 10920.00
46 Supplying and laying of 3.5 core 150 sqmm 10.00 Meter 1297.00 12970.00
47 Supplying and laying of 3.5 core 185 sqmm 10.00 Meter 1628.00 16280.00
48 Supplying and laying of 3.5 core 240 sqmm 5.00 Meter 2041.00 10205.00
49 Supplying and laying of 3.5 core 300 sqmm 5.00 Meter 2497.00 12485.00
50 Supplying and fixing of PVC batten /casing
50.1 20x12mm 50.00 Meter 52.00 2600.00
50.2 25x12mm 150.00 Meter 55.00 8250.00
50.3 32x12mm 150.00 Meter 56.00 8400.00
50.4 50x16mm 50.00 Meter 108.00 5400.00
51 Supplying and fixing of PVC DLP trucking of size 100.00 Meter 1342.00 134200.00
52 Supplying and fixing of PVC DLP trucking of size 100.00 Meter 1049.00 104900.00
53 Supplying and fixing of flexible conduit in
53.1 25mm GI flexible conduit 50.00 Meter 100.00 5000.00
53.2 32mm GI flexible conduit 50.00 Meter 113.00 5650.00
53.3 20mm/25mm PVC flexible conduit 100.00 Meter 54.00 5400.00
54 Supplying and fixing of doorbell single-phase, 50.00 Each 304.00 15200.00

55 Supplying and fixing of ceiling rose, 03 pin 05 50.00 Each 70.00 3500.00
56 Supplying and connecting 3 pin 06 amp plug top 100.00 Each 183.00 18300.00
57 Supplying and connecting 3 pin 16 amp plug top 200.00 Each 216.00 43200.00
58 Supplying and fixing/replacing of Skirting/foot
58.1 Skirting/foot LED Light 03 Module. (Legrand 25.00 Each 594.00 14850.00
58.2 Skirting/foot LED Light 02 Module. 25.00 Each 433.00 10825.00
59 Supplying and fixing/replacing of COB type 15.00 Each 2714.00 40710.00
60 Supplying and fixing/replacing of 10 watt LED 200.00 Each 469.00 93800.00
61 Supplying and fixing/replacing of 9 watt Bulb, 300.00 Each 133.00 39900.00
62 Supplying and fixing/replacing of 10 Watt, 100.00 Each 1022.00 102200.00
63 Supplying and fixing/replacing of Bollard Light 5.00 Each 6150.00 30750.00

64 Supplying and fixing/replacing of 2x3-5 watt, 30.00 Each 2205.00 66150.00
65 Supplying and fixing/replacing of Decorative 70.00 Each 1177.00 82390.00
66 Supplying and fixing/replacing of 35-45 watt, 35.00 Each 5807.00 203245.00
67 Supplying and fixing/replacing of LED lights
67.1 03-10 watt, ISI Marked, Non dimmable Electronic
driver for existing LED lights fitting. 50.00 Each 449.00 22450.00
67.2 13-25 watt, ISI Marked, Non dimmable Electronic
driver for existing LED lights fitting. 50.00 Each 586.00 29300.00
67.3 25-50 watt, ISI Marked, Non dimmable Electronic
driver for existing LED lights fitting. 100.00 Each 757.00 75700.00
68 Supplying and fixing of LED street light
68.1 36-50 watt, ISI Marked, Non dimmable Electronic
driver for existing LED street light fitting. 100.00 Each 1277.00 127700.00
68.2 55-100 watt, ISI Marked, Non dimmable
Electronic driver for existing LED street light
fitting. 100.00 Each 1329.00 132900.00
68.3 100 watt, LED driver, ISI Marked for existing
flood light. 20.00 Each 1477.00 29540.00
68.4 150 watt, LED driver, ISI Marked for existing
flood light. 20.00 Each 2162.00 43240.00
68.5 200 watt, LED driver, ISI Marked for existing
flood light. 3.00 Each 2985.00 8955.00
68.6 250 watt, LED driver, ISI Marked for existing
flood light. 3.00 Each 3670.00 11010.00

68.7 300 watt, LED driver, ISI Marked for existing
flood light. 2.00 Each 4492.00 8984.00
69 Supplying and fixing of following spare parts on
69.1 Fan Rod of 300mm length 10.00 Each 243.00 2430.00
69.2 Fan Rod of 900mm length 10.00 Each 312.00 3120.00
69.3 Fan Rod of 1200mm length 10.00 Each 354.00 3540.00
69.4 Fan Rod of 1800mm length 10.00 Each 444.00 4440.00
69.5 Ceiling fan PVC canopy. 100.00 Each 147.00 14700.00
69.6 Ceiling fan blade 1200/1400mm (01 Set = 03 Nos. 30.00 Set 697.00 20910.00
69.7 Fan capacitor/condenser 2.5 MFD, suitable for 300.00 Each 112.00 33600.00
69.8 Fan capacitor/condenser 3.15 MFD, suitable for 100.00 Each 110.00 11000.00
69.9 Fan regulator cap/knob on existing dimmer/ 100.00 Each 58.00 5800.00
70 Supplying and replacing of following BLDC Fan
70.1 BLDC fan PCB card for Crompton for remote 50.00 Each 1282.00 64100.00
70.2 BLDC fan PCB card for Crompton for without 50.00 Each 1282.00 64100.00
71 Spare parts of 300/400 wall mounted fan (Plastic
71.1 Cord Operated Fan switch 053 100.00 Each 236.00 23600.00
71.2 Blade 16 Random PP new 50.00 Each 449.00 22450.00
71.3 Neck gear SP. 300.00 Each 264.00 79200.00
71.4 Pull cord with Knob 100.00 Each 130.00 13000.00
71.5 Gear Box assembly WFM (DT40C0.5) 300.00 Each 380.00 114000.00
71.6 Motor Assembly swing Dzire WFM 150.00 Each 1682.00 252300.00
72 Supplying and fixing of Wall fan 400 mm, white 75.00 Each 2746.00 205950.00
73 Supplying and fixing of Heavy duty exhaust fan, 10.00 Each 1401.00 14010.00
74 Supplying and fixing of Heavy duty exhaust fan, 15.00 Each 1498.00 22470.00

75 Supplying and fixing of Heavy-duty exhaust fan, 15.00 Each 1819.00 27285.00
76 Rewinding of existing 900/1200/1400 mm ceiling 100.00 Each 792.00 79200.00
77 Rewinding of existing 150/230/300 mm exhaust 100.00 Each 792.00 79200.00
78 Rewinding of 400 mm wall fan, by replacing the 50.00 Each 1340.00 67000.00
79 Supplying and fixing of following MCB's
79.1 DP sheet steel enclosure suitable for 32Amp 25.00 Each 791.00 19775.00
79.2 TP sheet steel enclosure suitable for 32Amp MCB. 10.00 Each 789.00 7890.00
79.3 TPN Sheet steel enclosure suitable for 32/63-amp 20.00 Each 791.00 15820.00
80 Supplying and fixing of following rating,
three/four pole, 415V, MCB in the existing MCB
DB complete with connections, testing and
commissioning etc. as required. Supplying and fixing of following rating,
80.1 63-amp, Triple Pole 5.00 Each 2345.00 11725.00
80.2 63Amp, Four Pole 15.00 Each 2770.00 41550.00
80.3 100 Amp, Four Pole 15.00 Each 11248.00 168720.00
81 Supplying and replacing of R,Y,B,G LED 100.00 Each 200.00 20000.00
82 Supply and fixing/replacing of following energy

82.1 Multifunction meter 03-phase, voltage, PF, 30.00 Each 5695.00 170850.00
82.2 Single phase KWH energy meter, 10-60amp, 10.00 Each 1606.00 16060.00
82.3 Three phase 04 wire KWH energy meter, 10- 10.00 Each 4859.00 48590.00
83 Supplying and replacing of Geysers Element of 50.00 Each 929.00 46450.00
84 Supply and replacing of Geysers Element of 1500 15.00 Each 997.00 14955.00
85 Supplying and replacing of Geysers thermostat, 15.00 Each 898.00 13470.00
86 Supplying and replacing of programmable 15.00 Each 2107.00 31605.00
87 Supplying and replacement of four pole power
contactor of 63A ratting in existing panel along
with front mounting Add-on auxiliary block with
2 NO + 2NC with necessary connection, testing
and commissioning etc. as required
(L&T/Siemens/ABB/Legrand/Schneider) 10.00 Each 6988.00 69880.00
88 Supplying and fixing of Waterproof IP 65/66 10.00 Each 3212.00 32120.00
89 Supplying and replacement of Auto/Manual 10.00 Each 554.00 5540.00
90 Supply and replacing of existing (broken) panel
lock/hinges with new lock/hinges etc. as
required as per existing panel requirement. Supply and replacing of existing (broken) panel 100.00 Job 898.00 89800.00
91 Supply of extension board with 05-meter 03 core 15.00 Each 2470.00 37050.00

92 Supply of extension board with 10-meter 03 core
2.5 sqmm PVC sheathed cable with 06/16-amp
switch & socket 04 Nos. each, 12 Module GI box
along with modular base & cover plate i/c 16
amp plug top and connection etc. as required. Supply of extension board with 10-meter 03 core 5.00 Each 3258.00 16290.00
93 Supply of extension board with 15-meter 03 core 5.00 Each 4045.00 20225.00
94 Supplying and fixing/replacing of Din Rail
94.1 16/25-amp connector, din rail mounted, single 20.00 Each 243.00 4860.00
94.2 63-amp connector, din rail mounted, single pole 15.00 Each 354.00 5310.00
94.3 100-amp connector, din rail mounted, single pole 15.00 Each 555.00 8325.00
95 Current transformer (CT) ring type/ Dry type, air
95.1 60/5 Amp, ISI Marked. 10.00 Each 829.00 8290.00
95.2 100/5 Amp, ISI Marked. 10.00 Each 936.00 9360.00
95.3 250/5 Amp, ISI Marked. 5.00 Each 936.00 4680.00
95.4 500/5 Amp, ISI Marked. 5.00 Each 1100.00 5500.00
96 Design, fabrication, supplying, erection, testing 1.00 sqft 2439.00 2439.00
97 Design, fabrication, supplying, erection, testing

bus bar as per IS 8623 insulated with heat shrink 1.00 sqft 6531.00 6531.00
98 Combination plier insulated with thick C.A. 7.00 Each 199.00 1393.00
99 Combination plier insulated with thick C.A. 7.00 Each 183.00 1281.00
100 Flat Screwdriver Blade length-150mm, Blade Dia 3.00 Each 44.00 132.00
101 Flat Screwdriver Blade length-250mm, Blade Dia 3.00 Each 84.00 252.00
102 Flat Screwdriver Blade length-400mm, Blade Dia 3.00 Each 158.00 474.00
103 Screwdriver set having different size of 15.00 Each 148.00 2220.00
104 Complete socket set 46 PCS socket set Having 2.00 Set 1707.00 3414.00

105 Complete socket set (Bihexgonal & hexagonal 1.00 Set 3045.00 3045.00
106 Allen key set of 09 PCS set (1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 2.00 Each 194.00 388.00
107 Hacksaw Frame with blade- 12 Hacksaw Frame 1.00 Each 272.00 272.00
108 Ring spanners set having sizes - 1/8x3/16, 1.00 Each 1132.00 1132.00
109 Hacksaw blade of carbon steel all hard (24 TPI) 25.00 Each 8.00 200.00
110 Spirit level with 1.0 mm accuracy with magnet, 2.00 Each 295.00 590.00
111 Power electric drilling machine power 600- 2.00 Each 16122.00 32244.00
112 PVC Tape Roll for electric wire, Size - 1.70cm x 6 500.00 Each 10.00 5000.00
113 Dash Fastener metal type Size M10, 200.00 Each 41.00 8200.00
114 PVC Gitti 38mm. (Each Box 100 Nos.) 50.00 Box 41.00 2050.00
115 GI Screw/Wooden Screw 35x8. 50.00 Box 93.00 4650.00
116 Safety shoes of good quality, height Low shoe,
antistatic footwear, colour black, outer outsole
polyurethane, closing with laces, toe cap metallic,
(Size-UK 07, 08, 09, 10, 11 & 12), as per IS 15298
etc as per required. Safety shoes of good quality, height Low shoe, 25.00 Each 987.00 24675.00
117 Safety helmet size 500-600mm, colour (yellow, 25.00 Each 312.00 7800.00

118 Safety belt of suitable class, material of webbing
polyester/nylon, colour (Red, yellow, blue), as
per IS 3521 etc as required. Safety belt of suitable class, material of webbing 5.00 Each 865.00 4325.00
119 Hand gloves suitable for up to 650/1100V, gloves 5.00 Each 581.00 2905.00
120 Safety goggles, Material of frame - plastic, 5.00 Each 336.00 1680.00
121 Earth discharge rod suitable up to 11KV, Hook 3.00 Each 8085.00 24255.00
Total Amount including GST Rs. 13343581.00

NUMBER
# TEX T # NUMBER
# TEXT
# NUMBER NUMBER # TEXT #
Sl.
No. Item
Description Quantity Units Estimated
Rate
in
Rs. P TOTAL
AMOUNT With
Taxes in
Rs. P TOTAL AMOUNT
In Words
1 Repair and
maintenance
of electrical
infrastructure
of IIT
Jodhpur. 1.000 Nos 1,33,43,581.00 1,33,43,581.00 INR One Crore
Thirty-Three Lakh
Forty-Three
Thousand Five
Hundred & Eighty-
One Only
Total in Figures 1,33,43,581.00 INR One Crore
Thirty-Three Lakh
Forty-Three
Thousand Five
Hundred & Eighty-
One Only
Quoted Rate in Figures Select 0.00 INR Zero Only
Quoted Rate in Words INR Zero Only