SOURCE_PDF: 7c97e85820b9_Lease-of-Shop-for-Ladies-Beauty-Parlour-in-IIT-Jodhpur-Campus-638929293962517126.pdf

Date of Issue of Tender 04-09-2025
Pre-Bid Meeting As per Table ‘B’ (11:00 AM)
Last date of submission of
Bids 04-09-2025 (03:00 PM)
Opening of Bids As per Table ‘C’ (04:00 PM)
Page 1
Tender for Award of Licensee for Lease of Shop for
Ladies Beauty Parlour in IIT Jodhpur Campus
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH-62, Nagaur Road, Karwad, Jodhpur – 342 030, Rajasthan (India)

Page 2
DISCLAIMER
The information contained in this Tender or subsequently provided to Vendors, whether in 
document or verbal or any other form by or on behalf of Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur 
(IIT-J) by any of its employees or advisors, is provided to Vendors on the terms and conditions set 
out in this Tender document.
The purpose of this Tender document is to provide interested parties with information that may be 
useful to them in eliciting their proposals pursuant to this tender document. This Tender document 
may not be appropriate for all persons, and 
it is not possible for the Institute, its employees or advisors
to consider the investment objectives, financial situation and particular needs of each party who reads 
or uses this Tender document.
This Tender document includes statements, which reflect various assumptions and assessments 
made by the Institute in relation to the Contract. Such assumptions, assessments and statements do 
not purport to contain all the information that each Vendor may require.
The assumptions, assessments, statements and information contained in this Tender document, may 
not be complete, accurate, adequate or correct. Each Vendor should, therefore, conduct his/her 
own investigations and analysis and should check the accuracy, adequacy, correctness, reliability 
and
completeness of the assumptions, assessments, statements and information contained in this 
Tender
document and obtain independent advice from appropriate sources.
Information provided in this document to the Vendor(s) is on a wide range of matters, some of 
which depends upon interpretation of law. The information given is not an exhaustive account of 
statutory requirements and should not be regarded as a complete or authoritative statement of law. 
The Institute 
accepts no responsibility for the accuracy or otherwise for any interpretation or opinion on
law expressed herein.
Institute, its employees and advisors make no representation or warranty and shall have no liability 
to any person, including any Applicant or Vendor under any law, statute, rules or regulations or tort, 
principles of restitution or unjust enrichment or otherwise for any loss, damages, cost or expense which 
may arise from or be incurred or suffered on account of anything contained in this Tender document or 
otherwise, including the accuracy, adequacy, correctness, completeness or reliability of the Tender 
document and any assessment, assumption, statement or information contained therein or deemed to 
form part of this Tender document or arising in any way in this Tender Stage.
Signature of the Vendor

S.
No. Name of the Shop Area
(in Sq.
ft.) Minimum License Fee
* (Reserve) per month
(GST @18% will be
charged extra) Water Charges
(Rs.) per
month (GST
extra) EMD
(Rs.) PBG/ Security
Deposit (5 times
of License Fee)
(Rs.)
1. L adies Beauty Parlour 464.80 15,000/- 500/- 3,600/- 75,000/-
Page 3
Scope of Work:
IIT JODHPUR having its campus of 852 Acres at NH-62, Karwad, Jodhpur (hereinafter referred to as the 
“Institute”), an Educational Institute of National Importance, having approximate strength of 
approximately 6000 campus residents invites offline Bids for “Tender for Award of Licensee for Lease 
of Shop for Ladies Beauty Parlour in IIT Jodhpur Campus” at the Institute given in the Tender form. 
Non-compliance with specifications/instructions in this document may disqualify the bidders from the 
tender exercise. The Director, IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to select the item (in single or multiple 
units) or to reject any quotation wholly or partly. Incomplete tenders, amendments and additions to 
tender after opening or late tenders are liable to be ignored and rejected.
The Service Provider will pay towards the Shop/ Space as per tabulated below:
Table ‘A’
* The license fee shall be increased by 10 percent (%) of the License Fee amount each year 
(Compounding)
• 
Electricity Charges will be as per actuals on monthly basis.
1. The Vendor has to submit the Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) along with Technical Bid:
The Licensee will submit Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) as mentioned in the above Table ‘A’.
The EMD may be submitted in the form of Bank Guarantee, Fixed Deposit or Demand Draft of a 
scheduled bank in the name of Director, IIT Jodhpur valid for 180 days from the date of opening of the 
tender. The EMD will be Refundable without interest. Bids without EMD shall not be considered. The 
vendor will submit the Tender Document duly sealed & signed by the authorized person of the firm 
along with original EMD in the Office of Stores and Purchase, IIT Jodhpur.
2. Performance Bank Guarantee/Security Deposit: The successful service provider will be required to
provide a refundable interest free Performance Bank Guarantee/Security Deposit in the form of 
BG/DD/Online as mentioned in the above Table ‘A’:
This PBG shall cover the entire period of contract and shall remain valid for a period of 60 days 
beyond the period of contract. If the contract is further extended beyond the initial period, the PBG 
shall have to be renewed for the extended period also with a grace period of 60 days. This Bank 
Guarantee should be from a scheduled/ nationalized bank and will be held against in default in 
performance and violations of terms and conditions. The BUYER will forfeit the security deposit if 
BIDDER fails to execute the order as per the Lease Order. This Security Deposit shall be deposited 
within 15 days from the date of intimation of the award of license. In case the period of contract is 
extended beyond the date of original agreement, the Licensee shall arrange to appropriately extend, at 
his own cost, the validity of the Security Deposit.
3. The Security Deposit shall not carry any interest. It will not be adjusted towards the license fee payable
by the Licensee during the license period. It is refundable only after two months of the completion of 
license period. The Security Deposit shall be refunded after removal/ dismantling additional 
structures, constructed by the licensee for their use, if any. In case the Licensee vacates the premises 
without dismantling/ removing the additional structures the cost of dismantling/ removing the 
additional structures shall be adjusted out of the Security Deposit and the balance shall be refunded. 
The Security Deposit is liable for forfeiture in the event of failure by the Licensee to pay the license fee 
or termination of license or for breach of any condition/conditions of license.

S. No. Criteria Submitted
(Yes/No)
1. The age of Applicant/Tenderer should be in between 18 years to 60 years on
the last date of submission of tender;
2. The bidders shall submit details of experience in running a shop or related
field at least for a period of minimum two years before the date of tender
along with documentary proof;
3. Price List as per Annexure-I.
4. Application Form as per Annexure-II.
5. Applicant Information Sheet as per Annexure-III.
6. Bidder should not be blacklisted/debarred by the Institute or any other
agency for a period of one year from the last date of submission of this tender.
An affidavit to that effect on Non-Judicial stamp paper of Rs.10/- duly
notarized must be enclosed with the technical bid in prescribed format. The
proforma of the affidavit is attached with the tender as Annexure – IV.
7. Copy of authorized Registration of the Shop/Agency / Firm / Company
8. The Agency/Firm/Bidder is required to submit a self-attested copy of
PAN/GST/TAN/TIN certificates whichever applicable;
9. The Applicant/Tenderer must submit the Firm Incorporation/ registration,
GST and PAN documents, if any.
10. Startups, MSME & NSIC are exempted from EMD and Experience as per
Government Norms.
11. Earnest Money Deposit (EMD): The Applicant/Tenderer will submit the
Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) as per Table ‘A’
Page 4
Pre-qualification / Compliance Sheet:
(Documents alongwith their proofs to be submitted duly signed, stamped in technical bid envelope)
Signature of Bidder
Organization Name: __________________________
Contact No.: ____________________________
Note: - Any firm/Service Provider not fulfilling any of the above-mentioned criteria duly supported by the 
indicated documents shall be outrightly rejected and the bid shall not be considered for further evaluation.

S. No. Name of the Shop Minimum License Fee
(Reserve) per month
(GST @18% will be
charged extra) Quoted License Fee by
the Bidder (in Rs.)
1. Ladies Beauty Parlour 15,000/- To be quoted by the bidder
in financial bid only.
Page 5
4. INVITATION FOR TENDER OFFERS (Tender for Award of Licensee for Lease of Shop for
Ladies Beauty Parlour in IIT Jodhpur Campus)
The BIDDERs are requested to give detailed tender in two Bids i.e.
a. Part - I: Technical Bid
b. Part - II: Financial Bid
a. Envelope 1: Technical Bid: Bidder should submit the following documents duly signed,
stamped on company’s letter-head in technical bid.
1) Pre-qualification/Compliance sheet (along with all required documentary evidence
in support)
2) All Annexures
3) Acceptance of all terms and conditions of the tender document
b. Envelope 2: “Commercial Bid” Format:
*Providing/Indication of the financial quote for License Fee in technical bid envelope, will be 
summarily rejected.
Bidders have to quote strictly above the minimum reserve License Fee only.
Based on results of the Technical evaluation IIT Jodhpur evaluates the Commercial Bid of 
those Bidders who qualify in the Technical evaluation.
I. 
Conditional offers will be summarily rejected.
II. 
After arriving at the final pricing of individual offers of all the short-listed firms, the 
firm quoting Highest License Fee will be awarded with Lease Order. In case, if two or 
more bidders quotes same price, there will be an offline auction (in quotation mode) 
to finalize the highest bid.
6. AWARD OF CONTRACT
Award Criteria:- IIT Jodhpur shall award the contract to the technically qualified eligible
BIDDER whose bid has been determined as the Highest(H1) evaluated financial bid.
If more than one BIDDER happens to quote the same highest price and both bidders are
technically approved, there will be an offline auction (in quotation mode) to finalize the 
highest bid.
7. The Director, IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to accept the offer in full or in parts or reject
summarily or partly.
8. Resolution of complaint and imposition of penalty: Decision of Director, IIT Jodhpur in
relation to imposition of any penalty or any other matter / Resolution / Interpretation of any 
clauses of tender/work/contract order is final and binding on all parties.
9. Minimum eligibility Criteria
IIT Jodhpur has set up minimum eligibility criteria for the bidding purposes. All bidding parties
must meet Pre-qualification / Compliance Sheet before they apply for the bid. The bidding parties 
meeting the Pre-qualification / Compliance Sheet must enclose their supporting documents along 
with the technical bid. (All the technical documents to be provided as single PDF file).

S. No. Name of the Shop Pre-Bid Meeting Date
and Time Pre-Bid Meeting Place
1. L adies Beauty Parlour 11-09-2025 Meeting Room, 1st Floor, Admin
Building (West), IIT Jodhpur
Page 6
10. Submission of Tender
a) 
Pre-bid meeting will be held as per the following:
The prospective Vendor(s) are requested to attend the pre-bid meeting on scheduled date and 
time. Technical requirements, Terms & Conditions or any other query related to this Tender shall 
be opened for discussion for wider competition and competitive prices.
b) 
The interested parties may inspect the premises before submitting the Tender form;
c) 
Tender in the name of the Minors or on behalf of the Minors will be rejected;
d) 
In case of Firms /Companies/Institutes etc., the authorized representative can submit the 
Tender application along with authorization letter;
e) 
The Tender form, duly filled in, along with EMD declaration should be enclosed together 
with the form terms and conditions with signatures on each page and any other supporting 
certificates shall be kept in cover, the shop/nature of business, name and address of the vendor 
should be indicated;
f) 
The Tender received after the stipulated date and time will not be accepted. Tender will be 
opened by the Committee. The Vendors or their authorized representative (only one) may 
present while opening the covers;
g) 
Incomplete filled in Tender forms and unsigned Terms & Conditions will be 
rejected;
h) 
Tender forms with any pre-conditions or additional conditions other than the conditions 
prescribed and supplied by the Institute/Licensor will summarily be rejected at the time of 
opening of Tender;
i) 
Tender can be submitted in Hindi or English
j) 
Vendor has to submit the Annexures I, II, III and IV duly filled and complete in all sense 
along with the list of minimum items the vendor will provide throughout their services in 
the Institute; and
k) 
Institute reserves the right to reject any one or all the Tender received without assigning any 
reason. No correspondence in respect of the decisions arrived by the Tender Committee will be 
entertained.

S. No. Name of the Shop Bid Opening Date and Time Bid Opening Place
1. Ladies Beauty Parlour 25-09-2025 Meeting Room, 1st Floor,
Admin Building (West), IIT
Jodhpur
Page 7
11. Opening of Tender
The Tender will be opened as per the following:
The Vendor or any of its authorized representative holding authorization letter who wish to be present at 
the time of opening of Tender, can attend the Tender opening. The Applicant/Representative of the 
Applicant shall produce self-attested copy of valid Photo Identity Card (PAN Card, AADHAR, Voter Id, 
Driving License, Passport, Ration Card). In case of date of opening of Tender is declared holiday, then the 
date of opening will be the next working day.
12. Allotment of Contract
The successful Vendor shall enter into an agreement for running/ use the Shop/ Space for 
which he/she emerged as successful Vendor within 15 days from the date of issue of 
allotment letter.
13. DURATION
The period of contract for running the Shop/ Space shall be for a period of Five Years. However, 
within the aforesaid duration, the contract shall be extended on a yearly basis, based on 
satisfactory performance, with Terms & Conditions and the product pricing shall be mutually 
discussed and agreed.
14. General Terms and Conditions of Contract
14.1 Electricity: A flat fixed charge/meter rent decided by the Institute in agreement and a monthly
charge as per consumption basis (on metering) shall be payable by Licensee to the Institute. The 
monthly electricity consumption charges and fixed charge/meter rent will be reviewed/ revised.
14.2 The Electricity/Water charges shall be determined from time to time by the Office of Estate, with due
consultation with Office of Infrastructure Engineering. The same will be applicable after due approval 
of the Director IIT Jodhpur. The revised charges will be intimated to the Licensees by the Office of 
Estate.
14.3 Furnishings: The Institute will provide the unfurnished spaces to the Licensee, or with bare
minimum furnishing. All the furnishings and appliances required for commercial operations shall 
be arranged by the Licensee;
14.4 Specific Requirements: In special cases (such as providing furniture, appliances, or fixtures, if any,
as per the policy of the Institute), additional cost/fee/rate will shall be determined by the Office of 
Estate, duly approved by the Competent Authority. The Maintenance of the equipment will be the 
responsibility of the licensee and the equipment shall be returned to the Institute in fully functional 
condition after the end of contract.

Page 8
14.5 In the event of death of licensee, the license shall come to an end. However, the licensor may permit
the Legal Heir of the licensee to run the business on the same Terms & Conditions for the 
remaining period of license on execution of fresh deed of license by such Heir;
14.6 Force Majeure: Any delay due to Force Majeure will not be attributable to the Vendor. Force
Majeure events shall mean one or more of the following acts or events: Acts of God or events 
beyond the reasonable control of the Affected Party which could not reasonably have been 
expected to occur, exceptionally adverse weather conditions, lightning, earthquake, cyclone, 
flood, volcanic eruption or fire or landslide; Radioactive contamination or ionizing radiation; 
Strikes or boycotts (other than those involving the Vendor or its employees/representatives or 
attributable to any act or omission of any of them) interrupting supplies and services of the Project 
for a period exceeding a continuous period of 7 (seven) days; An act of war (whether declared 
or undeclared), invasion, armed conflict or act of foreign enemy, blockade, embargo, riot, 
insurrection, terrorist or military action, civil commotion or politically motivated sabotage which 
prevents rendering of supplies or specified services by the Vendor for a period exceeding a 
continuous period of 7 (seven) days.
15. Renewal of Licenses
Licenses for all commercial establishments shall be renewed on yearly basis. Such renewal of 
licenses shall be made after due deliberations in the CELC for the performance of all outlets during 
the current license period. All communications on renewal / termination of license shall be issued 
by the Office of Estate, IIT Jodhpur well in advance before expiry of the current license period and 
process for the award of license to a fresh licensee shall be initiated accordingly.
16. Conditions of licensing
16.1 The Licensee shall abide by the conditions of License Deed executed between the Licensee and the
Licensor during the period of license. The Estate Officer, IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to serve 
notices to the Licensee for non-observance of any condition of the License-deed and can recommend 
the CELC for termination of license of the licensee.
16.2 That the licensee(s) shall be licensed the said premises equipment, installations, fittings and fixtures
provided, if any, on ‘As is where is’ basis and the licensee shall not make any additions/alterations 
in the licensed space installations installed if any, including electric installations and wiring without 
the prior permission of the licensor in writing. The necessary light and fan points shall be arranged 
by the licensee at his own cost.
16.3 The Licensee during the license period, permanently or temporarily, shall not share / franchise or
sublet to anybody else and shall not be allowed to take any person to share the premises or in 
partnership without the prior written permission of the licensor, nor shall he be entitled to allow any 
person to occupy the licensed premises or to use any part thereof without the permission in writing 
from the licensor.
16.4 Licensee cannot add/delete any service/ items or increase the price of service/ items (as applicable)
without prior approval of the CELC.
17. General Terms and Conditions
17.1 Registration and Licensing
a. The Licensee shall register himself as a Licensee under the Contract Labor (Regulation and Abolition)
Act 1970 and obtain at his own expense a valid license from concerned/ prescribed authorities, 
if applicable. He shall comply with all norms & guidelines of the Statutory Authorities in this 
regard. The Licensee shall submit a copy of the same to the Institute within 30 days from the date 
of award of the license.
b. The licensee shall have/obtain valid licenses from the concerned/prescribed government
authorities, which are required for running the business of the licensee.
17.2 Conduct with Customers

Page 9
The Licensee shall ensure that:
a. The licensee will have to display in the Shop/Establishment a list of the prices of food &
beverage items / refreshments/services/ Items being sold (as applicable) as approved by 
CELC. The agreed price structure shall be mentioned in an Annexure to the agreement. The 
prices of all items whose Maximum Retail Price (MRP) is prescribed shall not exceed the MRP. 
The prices can be changed only after due approval from the Institute.
b. The Licensee shall maintain a complaint / suggestion book at its shop to enable the recording of
complaint / suggestions, if any. The CELC will verify the selling price of the items from time to 
time.
c. The licensee shall make appropriate arrangements from own expenses for managing the entire
customer service and feedback operations and invest in technology to streamline the operations.
d. The Shop staff are expected to be well mannered and in proper uniform/ dress;
e. The customer satisfaction is of utmost importance;
f. Reasonability of prices of items/ services; failing which, suitable action will be taken by the
g. To provide bills to all the customers;
h. Home delivery service, if applicable at no extra cost within the campus;
i. 
As far as possible all the materials to be sold are packed and of standard/ reputed brand;
j. 
Benefits of all schemes announced by the companies to be passed on to the community; and
k. Any credit extended by the Licensee will be its own responsibility and the Institute will not be
responsible for the credit extended under any circumstances.
17.3 Equipment in shops
a. Weights and measures of Govt. approved Agency are to be used. Weighing should be done only
on Electronic Government approved brand machines with adequate back up machines. Weighing 
by traditional instruments strictly not allowed;
b. Licensee will install swiping machines/ QR codes for convenience of payments for the goods
delivered to the customers;
c. Licensee will ensure all safety of Fire Risk due to equipment, oven, fridge, etc. being used in the
Food Centre/ Shop/Premises/Kiosk.
d. Fly net/ electrical insect killer/ rodent repellent shall be installed and used in the shop keeping
any foodstuff at the cost of the licensee.
17.4 Prohibitions
The Licensee shall, under no circumstances:
a. Sell any intoxicating products or allow consumption thereof by any person in the food court
area provided to him.
b. Sell any items prohibited by the Institute or by the Government or any law enforcing agencies.
The licensee shall adhere to the code of conduct laid down by the Institute from time to time. 
Failing which the Agreement can be terminated at any point of time without assigning any 
reasons including violation of contractual obligations;
c. Use of polythene covers. All the shopkeepers shall submit an undertaking for not using of the
polythene covers which are banned by the State/ Central Governments or any other agency;
d. Employ any child laborer for servicing as per Law;
e. Exhibit or permit any advertisement in the shop, except the same and style of his/ her business,
and the cutout/ poster/ hording should not be obscene;

Page 10
f. Hold promotional events or stalls for introducing new products outside the shop. If possible,
the same may be held within the shop with prior permission of the competent authority.
g. Sell any outer space of the shop for advertising by way of paintings, posters, etc. without due
approvals of the licensor.
17.5 Code of Conduct:
a. Any case of misbehavior, assault on person/ employee of the Institute, any act or comment
tarnishing the image of Institute by the Licensee or his representative/ workers will lead to 
imposition of penalty or termination of contract duly forfeiting the Security Deposit.
b. The licensee shall employ only those persons at the space whose character has been verified. For
the purpose Police Verification shall be carried out by the Firm for all employees working under 
their establishment and proper information shall be provided to the Institute about the number 
of persons working under their firm and their police verification should be submitted to Office 
of Security. If there is any change of the employee working under their firm, proper information 
shall be provided to the Office of Security of the Institute along with the relevant documents. 
No personnel facing any criminal case or convicted by any criminal court shall be deployed at 
the space.
c. GST Registration is mandatory for the firm, if applicable.
d. No staff is allowed on campus beyond working hours without proper information to the
e. Entry passes issued by the Institute should be carried by all the persons of the licensee working
their premises in the Institute.
f. Institute will not be responsible for Security & Safety (including Medical Emergencies) of any
person working under the firm or any item misplaced in the shop, it is the responsibilities of the 
licensee itself.
17.6 
Payments
The Licensee shall:
a. 
License fee or other dues shall be paid by the Licensee in advance on 1st of every month and a 
grace period of 5 days will be given beyond which penalty will be imposed. Corresponding bills 
will be raised by Estate Office, IIT Jodhpur and shall be paid to the Institute Revenue Account 
using online portal. Late payment of License fee will attract penalties and other penal interests 
@ 20% of the monthly license fee and interest of 18% per annum of amount due computed on 
monthly basis.
b. 
Bear all the expenses, in case of any accident to the personnel employed by them during the 
business time. The Licensee is solely liable for workmen’s compensation and any other statutory 
dues and Institute is not liable for payment of any such amount;
c. 
Pay all the taxes which are levied by the Central Government and the State Government within 
due dates. The Institute is not liable for the penalties against non- payment of these taxes or 
default therein. Any default, non-payment of taxes to statutory authorities will cause 
termination of license and vacation of premises; and
d. In the event of any damages caused to the shop premises or property of the Institute by the
Licensee or his representatives, agents or servants during the subsistence of License period, the 
Institute shall have right to recover the said sum from the Security Deposit of the Licensee. 
Further, if the damages so caused, exceed the amount of Security Deposit, the Licensee shall pay 
such amounts as assessed by the CELC/Competent Authority, failing which the license shall be 
terminated. In such event, the Institute shall have right to take possession of the premises by 
putting its own lock and key to the said premises and by keeping the items of the licensee in 
public auction. The Institute will claim the damages through adjustment from the proceeds.

Page 11
Furthermore, in case of any damages exceeding the above recoveries, the licensee shall pay the 
damages or the institute shall have a rightful claim of legal action against the licensee.
17.7 
Routine Working
The Licensee shall abide by the following:
a. 
The operation of the shop’s timings shall be as per directions of the Institute;
b. 
The Institute will have right to see the quality, market price, and reasonability of the products 
and services;
c. 
To do the same business which is mentioned in the Agreement and for which license is issued;
d. Perform the business by confining to the operations of Shops/ establishments within space as
mentioned in the Agreement or as recorded in the deed of license. There should not be any 
encroachment of space beyond licensed space by the Licensee, under any circumstances; Non-
compliance will attract appropriate penalty as decided by the Institute.
e. 
On the expiry of the period of the license or on its termination, as the case may be, the Licensee 
shall deliver vacant possession of the premises intact, to the Institute at 17.00 hrs. on the last day 
of agreement; failing which, the Institute shall have right to take possession of the premises by 
putting its own lock and key to the said premises. The articles, if any, left by the Licensee, will be 
kept in public auction by the Institute; and the process in the said auction will be adjusted 
towards the arrears of license fee etc., and the balance, if any, will be refunded to the Licensee.
f. 
That the Licensee shall use the Shop/Establishment/ space solely for providing item/services as 
per agreement to the consumer and the space shall not be used for any other purpose 
whatsoever.
g. 
The allocated space to the licensee can be relocated as per the requirement of the Institute. 
During the agreement period, the Institute is at liberty to alter/ modify/ add/ delete in the 
condition(s) of the Agreement in the interest of the Institute.
17.8 Maintenance of Shop/ Space and Surrounding Areas:
The maintenance, cleanliness, upkeep and hygiene around the Shop/Establishment space/ Cart will 
be the sole responsibility of the licensee and the licensee shall ensure cleanliness by deputing 
adequate staff for the purpose. The licensee shall at all times provide for Upkeep and Waste 
management and ensure garbage is disposed-off promptly and properly. Whitewashing/ painting 
of the space provided will be done by the licensee once in a year at own cost. The Licensee will 
Ensure that fire detection and suppression measures installed inside the premises are kept in good 
working condition at all times. Ensure that all electrical wiring, power outlets and gadgets are used 
and maintained properly, for guarding against short circuits/fires. The licensee shall at all times 
adhere to the condition stipulated at the above mentioned agreement/license deed and work order. 
Non-compliance will attract imposing of penalty up to Rs. 10,000/ - on each occasion. The licensee 
shall be responsible for any mishappening due to poor food products quality including pecuniary 
damages pertaining to claims arising due to food-poisoning etc.
17.9 The licensee will set up the Shop/Establishment as per the requirement. The entire cost for setting
up of the shop and any equipment shall be borne by the licensee. The Licensee will get the plan for 
setting up of the Shop/Establishment approved by the (Licensor) before commencing the work. No 
Civil & Electrical structural modification shall be allowed in the allocated shop except with the prior 
approval of Institute authorities. Any approved modifications shall be carried out by the licensee at 
his own costs.
17.10 That the licensee or its employees shall use all possible care and diligence while selling food &
beverage items / refreshments (as applicable) from the space and shall endeavor to provide fresh 
and hygienic goods and safeguard and protect the reputation of the licensor. Old/Stale/expired 
items (i.e. beyond expiry date shall not be sold at any point of time.

Page 12
17.11 That all undesirable goods, articles and exhibits put up by the Licensee in the Shop/Establishment
as per the opinion of the licensor, are liable to be removed forthwith.
17.12 The Licensee shall engage sufficient number of staff, which is considered appropriate for serving the
persons. Further, it shall also ensure that personnel employed by it are free from any infections / 
contagious disease.
17.13 No accommodation shall be provided for any employee of the licensee in the Institute, and they will
not be allowed to stay in the Institute after the closing time of the shop. The closing time of the 
shop(s) will be 09:00 PM, if applicable.
17.14 The licensor will not be responsible for any loss and / or damage caused to the licensee due to fire,
burglary or natural calamities. Further, the licensor shall also not be responsible for any injury to the 
personnel engaged by the licensee. The licensor shall have the rights to ask for the removal of any 
person of the licensee who is not considered to be competent and orderly in the discharge of his 
duties.
17.15 That the licensor shall have the right at all reasonable times to enter upon and inspect the licensed
space to check whether the terms and conditions of this license deed are being complied with by the 
licensee.
17.16 Penalty provisions and Termination of contract
a. Penalty Provisions
If the Licensee fails to execute the license for the terms mutually agreed and enter in the
Agreement/ contract between the Institute and the Licensee to satisfaction of the Institute, the 
Institute has the right to take the following actions
(1) Imposition of fine for breach of contract by Authorized Officer of the Institute;
(2) Forfeiture of Security Deposit either partly or fully;
(3) Termination of license by giving one month’s notice; and/ or
(4) Termination of contract with due notice and simultaneous forfeiture of Security Deposit.
(5) In compelling circumstances, the Institute reseves the right to close the establsihments with
immediate effect.
The Institute reserves the right to inspect, from time to time, the quality of the service and
products provided by the Licensee. The Committee will have right to see the quality, market 
price, and reasonability of the items. If the Institute or the Committee is of the opinion that the 
products or service is not up to the satisfaction of the Institute, a penalty shall be imposed 
depending on the situation and severity of the case. Further, for non-compliance of other Terms 
& Conditions as specified in this Agreement, indiscipline and unsatisfactory operation, the 
Institute shall levy a penalty of up to Rs. 2,00,000/-.
In the event of any statutory authorities imposes any punishment or fines etc. on the licensee,
and if the Institute is made a party in such penal action, the Institute will have the authority to 
keep Security Deposit etc. with it until it is proved to the satisfaction of the Institute that such 
penal actions are ceased. Such penal actions may be a reason for termination of Contract.
The Licensee shall be solely responsible for any consequence arising due to Non-compliance of
any guidelines of the concerned statutory authority and the Institute shall be in no way 
responsible for the same.
b. Termination of Contract:
The Institute is at liberty to terminate the license and forfeiting the Security Deposit with a
month’s notice without assigning any reasons. Termination of license duly forfeiting the 
Security Deposit in the event of following, but not limited to:

Page 13
i. 
The Licensee defaults in payment of license fee for two (02) months consecutively or three 
times in a calendar year;
ii. The Licensee fails to do the business in the licensed space for a period of (30) thirty days (for
which the license is granted) for whatsoever reasons, non-payment of Security Deposit and 
enter into an Agreement in the stipulated period;
iii. The Licensee fails to comply with formalities like payment of Security Deposit, execution of
iv. If in the opinion of the Institute, the quality of goods/ services sold is not up to the
v. If during the period of contract, any time it is found that the Licensee is charging higher than
the comparable prevalent market rates, then the Institute may terminate the contract by 
giving the written notice;
vi. If the Licensee is found doing business in the Shop other than the stipulated in the deed of
license
vii. The licensee sublet the premises to any other person or agency
That the termination of the license on its expiry or for any other reason whatsoever should not
give rise to any liability on the part of the licensor to pay any compensation to the licensee for 
the loss of any profit or business.
17.17 That the grant of this license shall not give the licensee or the employees any hope or
expectation for any continuous business or employment respectively.
17.18 That the “Licensee” will be responsible for the recruitment and hiring of its employees and the
service conditions of its employees shall be governed by them and their employees shall always 
work under their direct administrative and supervisory control.
17.19 The licensee shall comply with all prevailing Labor Laws/ Municipal Laws & Statutory
requirement of other Central/ State Government Organizations. In case of non-adherence of 
any laws/ regulations of the statutory bodies, the Licensee will be fully responsible for the 
consequences arising out of non-adherence. Institute will not be party, nor it will help the 
Licensee where a govt. agency or its official is visiting the premises in connection with the 
discharge of his duties. Any dispute arising out of the same shall be the responsibility of the 
Licensee and the Govt. Agency. The Institute in no way will be responsible for the same. The 
licensee is an independent entity and the licensee’s employees deployed at the space shall not 
be deemed for any purpose to be the employee, agent, servant or representative of the licensor. 
The licensee and/or its employees shall not raise any claim monetary or otherwise upon the 
licensor if the present license is terminated due to any reason whatsoever.
17.20 That the licensee agrees to defend and indemnify the licensor against any and all suits, actions
penalties and liabilities that may arise from failure on the part of the licensee to properly 
administer wages and other benefits / facilities to its employees working in the space in terms 
of all applicable laws.
17.21 In the eventuality of discontinuation of operation at any stage due to unforeseen events,
licensee will be given free access to take back machines and fixtures after clearing all/ any dues 
of the Shop/Establishment.
18. Encroachment Removal and Eviction
18.1 
Encroachment Removal
a. The Commercial Establishments / Shops / Premises will confine their operations within the
licensed space (area). They shall be charged License Fee as per the licensed area. Any use of 
area beyond licensing will be considered as “Encroachment” and shall be dealt accordingly.

Page 14
b. If at any time, after the licensing of space (during the operations), it is found that the licensee
has encroached onto the extra area, the Licensee is liable to be penalized by levying a penalty 
(at the minimum rate of 1.5 times the monthly license fees computed on daily basis for the 
duration of encroachment) along with the removal of encroachment. The concerned 
Commercial Establishment / Licensee shall abide by the decision of Estate Office. It will also 
depend on the extent of encroachment done by the licensee/ licensee. If the Licensee is 
habituated for encroachment, liable for termination by serving a notice.
18.2 
Eviction
The proceedings for eviction, if found necessary to be initiated, against a Licensee / 
Commercial Establishment / Firm for non-observance of licensing rules and subsequent non- 
compliance to the notices from Estate Office, shall be initiated by the CELC.
19. 
Dispute Redressal
a. In all disputes and doubts or interpretation of the clauses or conditions applicable to the license or
otherwise, the decision of the Institute shall be final and binding on the Licensee;
b. In all disputes and doubts or interpretation of the clauses or conditions applicable to the license or
otherwise, the decision of the Institute shall be final and binding on the Licensee. In case of any 
dispute arising between the parties, the same must be resolved amicably. In case the dispute is not 
resolved through amicable means, the decision of Director, IIT Jodhpur shall be final.
c. All legal proceedings shall be under the jurisdiction of Honorable High Court of Rajasthan, Jodhpur.

S. No. Name of Services Rate
1. Forehead 20
2. Eyebrow 30
3. Upper lips 20
1. Trimming 100
3. Layer Cutting 300
4. Straight Cutting 200
1. Fruit Facial 350
2. Pearl Facial 350
3. Diamond Facial 550
4. Gold Facial 550
5. Silver Facial 400
6. Shahnaaz Facial 1100
1. Shahnaaz 500
2. Fruit Cleanup 250
1. Normal 400
2. Lotus 550
1. Underarm 50
2. Full Arm 150
3. Half Leg 150
4. Full Leg 200
Page 15
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Office of Stores and Purchase
ANNEXURE I
Items / Services which will be provided / served in the Shop / Outlet at the mentioned cost as below:

1. Oxy Bleach 200
2. Fruit Bleach 120
3. Gold Bleach 200
1. Normal 300
2. Lotus 450
1. Hair Spa 400
2. Hair coloring with amonia 600
3. Hair coloring without amonia 800
Page 16
Institute will have the right to add or delete the items for the selected vendor and also have 
the right to fix the prices (as per the market rate) for all the items.

Page 17
To 
Office of Estate The
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Office of Stores and Purchase
ANNEXURE II
Application Form
For ……………………………………………..
W-1 Berm, 
N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, 
Karwad,
Jodhpur 342030 
Rajasthan (India)
Dear Sir
This is in reference to Tender Notification No. 
dated 
regarding
allotment of Shop for Ladies Beauty Parlour in IIT Jodhpur Campus at IIT Jodhpur located at 
Karwad Village, Jodhpur. I, hereby submit Tender in the prescribed format. I have read all 
the Terms and Conditions supplied along with the Tender Form thoroughly and understood 
the
full content. Further, I hereby agree to abide by the Terms and Conditions stipulated by the IIT 
Jodhpur from time to time during the operation of my business on awarding the License for 
the 
same.
Thank you.
Signature of the 
Applicant
Full Name:
Permanent
Yours faithfully
Mobile Phone No:

Page 18
Applicant Information Sheet
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Office of Stores and Purchase
ANNEXURE III
1. 
Name of the Applicant:
2. 
Father’s Name of Applicant:
3. 
Nature of Current Business :
4. 
Age of the Vendor : :
5. 
Full Address of Applicant:
6. 
Pan Card No. :
7. 
I offer the following sureties who have signed hereunder as Sureties.
Sl.No. Name of the Sureties 
Occupation 
Signature
Signature of the Applicant

Page 19
ANNEXURE IV
DECLARATION REGARDING BLACKLISTING/DEBARRING FOR TAKING PART IN 
Tender.
(To be executed &attested by Public Notary / Executive Magistrate on Rs.10/- non-judicial Stamp
paper by the vendor)
I / We 
, the shopkeeper hereby declare that the shop 
namely
has not been blacklisted or debarred in the past by Union / State
Government or organization or Institute from taking part in Government Tender in India.
Or
I / We 
, the shopkeeper hereby declare that the shop namely
was blacklisted or debarred by Union / State
Government or any Organization or Institute from taking part in Government Tender for a period 
of 
 years w.e.f. 
to 
. The period is
over on 
and now the firm/shop is entitled to take part in
Government Tender.
In case the above information found false I/we are fully aware that the Tender/ contract will be 
rejected/cancelled by Director, IIT Jodhpur, and Performance Security shall be forfeited.
In addition to the above Director, IIT Jodhpur will not be responsible to pay the bills for any 
completed/ partially completed work
DEPONENT
Name
Address
(Public Notary / Executive Magistrate)
Seal of the firm/company

S. No. Description Qty. License Fee
1. License Fee for Ladies Beauty Parlour
(Bidders must quote strictly above the
reserve License Fee (Rs. 15,000/-) only) 1
2. GST Extra @ 18% on License Fee and Water Charges
Page 20
Annexure - V
Financial Bid for Ladies Beauty Parlour
(To be submitted on the letterhead of the company / firm)
Signature & Seal of the Tenderer
1. I/We have gone through the entire terms & conditions as stipulated in the tender enquiry document and
confirm to accept and abide the same.
2. No other charges would be payable by the Institute.
Signature & Seal of the Tenderer