SOURCE_PDF: 82779653c5b3_Reporting-Details-ME-PhD-round-2-638872468214726947.pdf

Date Reporting
Time Venue
Written Test/Interview
Date: July 8, 2025. 9:00 AM Google meet online
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur 342037, INDIA
Annexure 2
Reporting Details for Online Admission Exam
All the candidates Shortlisted for Written Test/Interview for Ph.D. Admission of the Department of 
Mechanical Engineering are hereby requested to appear for the online written test and/or interview as per the 
following schedule:
Please note the following:
(1) The link for the online written test and interview will be shared one day before the test both on the
department website and your registered email.
(2) Audio and video should be turned on during the online test. Candidates face and hands should be clearly
visible during the entire exam.
(3) You are advised to produce government issued photo identity card at the time of written exam and
interview. Keep your other documents ready for the verification.
(4) Written test will consist of two sections;
Section I: General Aptitude and Mathematics 
Section II: Domain Specific i.e., only one from the following list 
(a) Thermofluids Engineering (b) Manufacturing (c) Solid Mechanics and Design
(5) No request will be entertained to change the date for the written test and interview. 
(6) You are advised to visit department’s web page before interview
(Link for department website: Mechanical Engineering | IIT Jodhpur)
(7) You are advised to visit department faculty profile and their webpages before interview. (Link for
department faculty members: People | Mechanical Engineering | IIT Jodhpur)
(8) The Institute reserves the right to withdraw the admission in case candidate DOES NOT fulfil minimum
qualification/required percentage of marks in qualifying examination or supplies any false information.
(9) Please note that this call is merely a request for written test / interview and in any way does not guarantee
admission for PhD Program at IIT Jodhpur.
(10) In case of any queries please write at office_me@iitj.ac.in or call at +91 291 2801502.