SOURCE_PDF: 893ac01d31a6_RevisedDraftadvertisementforDirectorDIACoEIITJodhpur11Feb2026-639069505324012724.pdf

Advertisement for the post of Director, DIA-CoE, IIT Jodhpur
1. DRDO has signed MoU with IIT Jodhpur for setting up DRDO Industry Academia Centre of
Excellence IIT Jodhpur (DIA-CoE IITJ) for directed research. The objective of the centre is to 
 
collaborate with the academic researchers/ faculty, start-ups, industries and other institutes in 
the country in facilitating and progressing advanced technology research.
2. DIA-CoE IITJ specifically facilitates and undertakes multidisciplinary directed 
applied
research in Applications of Advanced Technologies for Desert Warfare, Futuristic Omni 
Mobility Drones and AI for Information Warfare and War Gaming Technologies.
3. About the Post
Suitable candidates may apply for the post of Director, DIA-CoE at IIT Jodhpur. Director 
DIA-CoE IITJ is the administrative and executive head. Director, DIA-CoE IITJ will be 
appointed on a full-time basis and would be responsible for the smooth functioning of DIA-
CoE IITJ. The qualifications are outlines in the following paras.
3.1 Remuneration
(i) For Retired Central / Sate Govt employee covered under OPS/ NPS
• Old Pension Scheme
(Last drawn salary – basic pension) in line with DoE OM no. F.No. 3- 25/2020-E.IIIA 
dated 09 Dec 2020 as updated time to time
• New Pension Scheme
(Last basic pay- 30% of last basic pay) in line with DoE OM 03-25/2020-
E.III(A)/Pt dated 18 Oct 2023 as updated time to time
(ii) For Non- Govt. employee (Without any Govt Pension benefits)
Rs. 1,75,000 – 2,00,000/- based on experience
3.2 Additional Incentives
Accommodation, medical benefits or any other incentives may be provided by IIT Jodhpur as 
per the eligibility, IIT Jodhpur norms and availability of accommodation.
3.3 Duration
Full time position wherein the initial appointment would be for a period of 3 years renewed 
every year subject to performance. This period can be extended by the competent authority for 
additional 2 years subject to performance review. The position may be discontinued anytime by 
either side by giving a notice of 3 months without assigning reason.
4. Qualifiations
4.1 Essential Qualifications
• Doctoral/Master’s Degree in Engineering, Technology or Science from a recognized
University or equivalent with 25 years of experience in technology domains/ Defence 
(technical domain), but not limited to above mentioned technology areas.
4.2 Desirable Qualifications

• 
Wide-ranging experience and exposure to collaborative projects, setting up of large research
facilities, strategic research planning and technology transfer. Candidates from Armed 
Forces having suitable experience in tehnical domain may also apply.
• 
Exposure to multi-mode projects across labs/ organisations/Academia interactions with
awareness in global developments in relevant areas for overall exposure.
• 
Experience in defence domain in terms of research/ coordination and technology 
development/ deployment towards useful outcomes. Alternatively strong record of 
publications and patents, laboratory/ course development and/or other recognized relevant 
professional activities leading to defence or related technology development in the country.
• 
Exposure to Academic and Industry oriented research/ coordination towards realization of 
technology/ systems.
The age of the applicant should be below 62 years as on the closing date of receipt of 
applications of this advertisement.
5. Submission of Application
Interested candidates having the above qualifications can email their detailed CV in PDF format 
to the undersigned along with a brief statement of why they feel that they are well suited to this 
position. Please send a single PDF file. Attachments, if any, should be a part of the single PDF 
file. Please use the subject line: “Application for Director, DIA-CoE, IIT Jodhpur” in your 
email. The attached PDF file should be named as <first name>.<last name>.pdf. Please provide 
your date of birth in the application. Persons working in full-time positions with government 
organizations may also submit a no-objection certificate from the parent organization.
5.1 References
Please provide contact details of at least 02 references who may be contacted during the 
selection process.
6. Last Date
Last date of receiving the application/CV is 10th March, 2026.
Registrar
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Jodhpur