SOURCE_PDF: 8c58b88f56c7_IETE-AWARDEES-2025.pdf

IETE AWARDS 2025 WINNERS
➢
IETE MAIN AWARDS
➢
IETE CORPORATE AWARDS
➢
IETE BEST PAPER AWARDS
➢
IETE ACADEMIC AWARDS
The following is a list of the recipients of the IETE Awards 2025. IETE would 
like to extend its congratulations to all of the recipients of this year's 
awards. The 2025 IETE Award ceremony will be held at the CSIR-Central 
Scientific Instruments Organisation (CSIO), Sector 30, Chandigarh, during 
the 68th Annual IETE Convention (AIC), which will take place from 
September 27th to 28th, 2025.
The IETE will send specific correspondence to each recipient, which will 
include details of the event and schedule of the Award ceremony.

➢ IETE BEST PAPER AWARDEES-2025 ➢
Awards Awardees
IETE SK Mitra
Memorial
Award- The
best research
oriented paper-
2025 “Modified 2D-EWT-based Automated
System for Glaucoma Diagnosis” by Amit
Rawat, Maheshwari Prasad Singh and Rishi
Raj Sharma, published in IETE Journal of
Research, Vol 70 No. 07, July 2024 issue,
pp 6228-6238.

IETE JC Bose
Memorial
Award- The
best
engineering
oriented paper-
2025 “Design and Development of a Low-Cost
Vision-Based 6 DoF Assistive Feeding Robot
for the Aged and Specially-Abled People” by
Priyam Parikh, Reena Trivedi, Jatin Dave,
Keyur Joshi and Dipak Adhyaru, published
in IETE Journal of Research, Vol 70 No 2,
Feb 2024 issue, pp 1716-1744
IETE MN Saha
Memorial
Award- The
best application
oriented paper
-2025 “Designing of a Reduced Switch MLI-Based
Standalone Solar Inverter Suitable for
Water Pump Application” by Shubhajit Pal,
Avik Bhattacharya and Rubell Sen Goopta,
published in IETE Technical Review, Vol 41
No. 6, Nov-Dec 2024 Issue, pp 695-708.

IETE KS
Krishnan
Memorial
Award- The
best system
oriented paper-
2025 “An Energy-aware Technique for Resource
Allocation in Mobile Internet of Thing (MIoT)
Using Selfish Node Ranking and an
Optimization Algorithm” by Zhengbing
Zheng and Habibeh Nazif, published in IETE
Journal of Research, Vol 70 No. 4, Apr 2024
issue, pp 3546-3571.
IETE CDIL
Award for
Industry- The
best paper
contributed by
authors working
in Industry -
2025 “Chiplets for Integration of Electronic
Systems” by C P Ravikumar, published in
IETE Journal of Education, Vol 65 No 2,
July-Dec 2024, pp 92 - 108.

IETE Gowri
Memorial
Award- The
best paper on
topic of general
Interest-2025 “Metaheuristic Algorithms in Smart
Farming: An Analytical Survey” by
Aishwarya Mishra and Lavika Goel,
published in IETE Technical Review, Vol 41
No 1, Jan-Feb 2024 pp 46-65.
IETE Journal of
Education
Award- Two
best papers
from IETE
Journal of
Education -
2025 1. “Experimental Observation of Chaotic
Attractors from the FPGA implementation
of 3D Chaotic Systems” by José David
Rodríguez-Muñoz, Jonathan Daniel
Tavizón-Aldama and Esteban Tlelo-Cuautle,
published in IETE Journal of Education, Vol
65 No 1, Jan-June 2024, pp 6-14.

➢ IETE ACADEMIC AWARDEES-2025

Challenges and Opportunities for Photonics in Next Generation Computing
Prof. Sukhdev Roy
Department of Physics and Computer Science
Dayalbagh Educational Institute, Agra 282005, India
The anticipated demand for ultra-high bandwidth ultra-high-speed communication and 
computing has given the impetus to develop the next-generation photonic technologies, 
with the promise of higher performance at lower cost. There is tremendous effort directed 
towards multi- and single-mode links and all-photonic switching, routing and optical 
interconnect technologies, to eliminate the electronic bottleneck and integration of 
photonics and electronics to enable new architectures. This raises a multitude of 
opportunities and challenges for research and innovation. 
 
The advent of nature-inspired nano and bio technologies in the design, synthesis and 
characterization of novel materials, structures and devices and photonic integrated circuits, 
have opened up exciting new possibilities. The talk would provide a broad overview of 
recent advances for high performance, parallel and energy efficient photonic information 
processing that include nano photonics, plasmonics, organic and silicon photonics, photonic 
crystals and metamaterials, ultrahigh Q-micro resonator structures, bio- and quantum 
photonics. Advances in conservative and reversible photonic logic and molecular, quantum 
and neuromorphic photonics have also opened up new vistas for computing with light. 
 
The talk would focus on some of our recent experimental and theoretical results on all-
optical switching in a variety of configurations, that include, graphene, organometallics, 
organic 
materials, 
namely, 
transition 
metal 
dichalcogenides 
(MoTe₂/MoS₂ 
heterostructures), BODIPY derivatives, CoTCPP SURMOF nanofilms, ultra-sensitive natural 
photoreceptor proteins, nanostructures such as, high-Q silica and silicon microring 
resonators, opto-genetically controlled neurons and neuromorphic devices, to design a wide 
range of all-optical ultrafast Boolean, reversible and reconfigurable computing circuits that 
include, various logic gates, half-full adders-subtractors, counters, MUX/DE-MUXs, decoder-
encoder, comparator, flip-flops, RAM and arithmetic logic unit (ALU). The talk would review 
the status of current technologies, highlight the importance of integrating them and identify 
important challenges that need to be overcome to realize the next generation information 
processing systems.