SOURCE_PDF: 8e26e852d898_DrHeena_Rathore_dt_15_april_21.pdf

CSE webinar on March 19, 2021
Date and Time: Mach 19, 2021 at 6:00 pm, IST
Speaker: Dr. Heena Rathore, University of Texas, SA, USA
Title: Brain Variable Reward Structure for Cooperative Machine Learning in IoT
Network
Abstract: Recent advances in machine learning research have resulted in state-of-the-art
techniques where the Reinforcement Learning (RL) agents are focused on either using
value-based methods or policy-based methods with the goal of reducing variance in the reward
signal, thereby trying to reach an optimal state in the shortest period. Metrics such as the
number of iterations taken to reach optimal reward structure or the number of interactions
needed with the environment to achieve this are generally used as key performance indicators.
There is a large body of research work that shows how the agents can achieve this using either
large
amounts
of
training
data
or
using
complex
algorithms that require power and
resource-intensive computational elements. But such a strategy may not be applicable for
resource and power-sensitive network of IoT devices and more importantly differs fundamentally
from how humans learn. To overcome this challenge, we have been looking at the field of
neuroscience to derive inspiration from how the human brain works, specifically towards the
release of dopamine in response to variable reward structure. Typical RL systems focus on
receiving observations from the environment, calculating reward, and then deciding on the next
set of actions at fixed intervals or based on fixed responses. However, scientific research on
human brain activity has shown higher activity in dopamine release in response to rewards
received at variable times. In this presentation, findings on two particularly interesting areas in
neuroscience
and
psychology
are
presented,
one
is
related
todopamine-based
reward-stimulated learning which supports the concept of cooperative learning. It has been
shown that the active dopamine release activity will be available to increase the processing of
new information. Second, is related to the study that has found that cooperative groups
generate more participation and stimulate multiple brain regions. In such an environment, the
efficiency of the network increases dramatically. We will discuss how RL techniques can learn
from this behavior, especially in an IoT system that may contain several nodes. Rather than
expecting agents running on all the nodes at fixed time intervals, our research investigates the
efficiency gain by invoking agents at different time instances, thereby providing them with an
opportunity to receive reward signals. Just like variable reward structure results in increased
dopamine activity in human brains, such an approach can help achieve higher efficiency in IoT
systems.
About the Speaker: Dr Heena Rathore is an Assistant Professor at the University of Texas,
San Antonio, USA. Prior to that, she was a visiting assistant professor at Texas A&M University,
USA. She also worked as a Data Scientist and Program Manager at Hiller Measurements for a

professional and major trade publications, major media, such as IEEE.TV , Microwave Journal,