SOURCE_PDF: 928ac97c198f_M.Sc_Regulations.pdf

Regulations for M.Sc. Programs
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Contents
Description 
Page
1. 
Introduction 
3
2. 
Academic Session 
3
2.1 Academic Calendar 
3
3. 
Admissions 
4
3.1 Eligibility for Admission 
4
3.2 Selection Procedure 
5
3.3 Supervisor Allocation 
5
3.4 Reservation Policy 
5
3.5 Non-degree Program 
6
3.6 Cancellation of Admission 
6
3.7 Fulfilment of Admission Requirements 
7
4. 
Coursework Requirements 
7
4.1 Academic Load 
7
4.2 Registration 
8
4.3 Registration Procedure 
8
4.4 Late Registration 
8
4.5 Adding and Dropping of Courses 
8
4.6 Cancellation of Registration 
9
4.7 Minimum Credit Requirements 
9
5. 
Teaching and Evaluation 
9
5.1 Teaching 
9
5.2 Attendance Requirements 
10
5.3 Evaluation 
10
5.4 Grading System 
11
5.5 Grade Point Averages 
12
5.6 Grade Card and Transcript 
13
6. 
Termination 
13
6.1 Termination from M.Tech. Program 
13
6.2 Appeal against Termination 
13
7. 
Leave 
14
7.1 Short Leave 
14
7.2 Temporary Withdrawal / Semester Leave 
14
7.3 Permission to Proceed to Other Institutions 
15

8. 
Requirements for Graduation 
16
8.1 Minimum Duration of Residence 
16
8.2 Academic 
16
8.3 Payment of Fees and Dues 
16
8.4 No Case of Disciplinary Action 
16
8.5 Award of Degrees 
16
8.6 Withdrawal of Degree 
17
9. 
Amendments 
17

S.No. Segment of the Year Duration
1 Semester 1 Fourth week of July – Last week of
November
2 Summer Vacation First week of December – Third week of
December
3 Semester 2 Last week of December – Last week of April
4 Summer Vacation First week of May – Third week of July
1. INTRODUCTION
The aim of the M.Sc. Program is to develop graduates having
good knowledge and research training in emerging areas of natural 
sciences. IIT Jodhpur has organized the Masters of Science Program in 
domains of three Departments of the Institute. These Programs are: 
(1) M.Sc. (Chemistry), 
(2) M.Sc. (Physics), and 
(3) M.Sc. (Mathematics). 
The M.Sc. Program is based on three tenets of (1) Semester System, (2) 
Credit System, and (3) Relative Grading. This document sets out the 
procedures and requirements of the said Programs of study at IIT 
Jodhpur. 
 
 
2. ACADEMIC SESSION 
 
Each academic year (July to June) consists of two academic
semesters. Each semester is for about sixteen (16) weeks with one week 
of recess for students, making it about 15 working weeks in each 
semester. Excluding the days of the examinations, the total number of 
days of instruction in a semester is at least 70. Normal schedule of 
these semesters is given in Table 1.
Table 1: Schedule of the Academic Session
2.1 Academic Calendar
It gives the exact dates of all important events during the
Academic Session, such as orientation, registration, commencement of 
classes, adding and dropping of courses, submission of documents, 
examinations, submission of grades, conversion of Incomplete I-
grades, vacation, mid-semester recess. This calendar shall be approved 
by the Senate.

Program Qualifying Degree and Marks obtained
M.Sc. (Chemistry) Bachelor's degree with Chemistry as a subject for three
years or six semesters and Mathematics at (10+2) level
A first class in the qualifying degree, the First Class is
defined as:
(i) A minimum of 60% marks for GEN/OBC (55% for SC/ST)
category in aggregate or as specified by the
university/institute, OR
(ii) A minimum CGPA of 6.5 for GEN/OBC (6.0 for SC/ST)
category on the scale of 10; with corresponding
proportional requirements when the scales are other
than on 10 (for example 5.2 for GEN/OBC category (4.8
for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) OR (iii) A first class as specified
by the university/institute.
M.Sc. (Physics) Bachelor's degree with Physics as a subject for three years
or six semesters and Mathematics at (10+2) level
A first class in the qualifying degree, the First Class is
defined as:
(i) A minimum of 60% marks for GEN/OBC (55% for SC/ST)
category in aggregate or as specified by the
university/institute, OR
(ii) A minimum CGPA of 6.5 for GEN/OBC (6.0 for SC/ST)
category on the scale of 10; with corresponding
proportional requirements when the scales are other
than on 10 (for example 5.2 for GEN/OBC category (4.8
for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) OR (iii) A first class as specified
by the university/institute.
3. ADMISSIONS
The admission to the M.Sc. Programs offered by the Institute
will be through the Joint Admission Test for Master (JAM) organised 
by IITs.
3.1 Eligibility for Admission 
 
The eligibility criteria prescribed below in Table 2 are the
absolute minimum.
Table 2: Minimum Eligibility Criteria for admission to M.Sc. Programs

M.Sc.
(Mathematics) Bachelor's degree with Mathematics as a subject for three
years or six semesters and Mathematics at (10+2) level
A first class in the qualifying degree, the First Class is
defined as:
(i) A minimum of 60% marks for GEN/OBC (55% for SC/ST)
category in aggregate or as specified by the
university/institute, OR
(ii) A minimum CGPA of 6.5 for GEN/OBC (6.0 for SC/ST)
category on the scale of 10; with corresponding
proportional requirements when the scales are other
than on 10 (for example 5.2 for GEN/OBC category (4.8
for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) OR (iii) A first class as specified
by the university/institute.
3.2 Selection Procedure
Admission will be made based on technical performance at the
written examination conducted by JAM and/or interview. The 
concerned Departments may shortlist applicants with a proven academic 
record based on a cut-off of the JAM score card.
All applicants, who are offered admission, will be informed by
the concerned Departments. Candidates whose selection is approved 
by the Chairman, Senate, will be admitted to the M.Sc. Program at IIT 
Jodhpur after paying the prescribed fee for the Program.
3.3 Supervisor Allocation
Students admitted to the M.Sc. Program, shall be allocated a
Supervisor during the second Semester of their program at IIT 
Jodhpur. The Supervisor identification will be based on the research 
interest of the student and the availability of a Faculty Member willing 
to supervise such a work. 
 
3.4 Reservation Policy
The norms of reservation for different categories shall be
adopted as laid down by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, 
Government of India.

3.5 Non-degree Program
A non-degree student is one, who is registered for a degree in a
recognized Institute or a University in India or abroad, and who is 
officially sponsored by that Institute or University to complete a part of 
her/his academic program at IIT Jodhpur. For that purpose, the non-
degree student may carry out research, take courses for credit or 
otherwise, and/or may use other academic facilities. An official 
transcript of work done at the Institute along with grades obtained, if 
any, would be given to the non-degree student concerned for her/his 
use as she/he may deem appropriate. But, any credits earned at the 
Institute, by a non-degree student, cannot be applied for any degree 
program of IIT Jodhpur at any time thereafter. A person can be 
admitted as a non-degree student on a duly sponsored application to 
the Coordinator (Academics), who will recommend admission on the 
advice of AC to the Chairman, Senate, for approval. A non-degree 
student may be admitted for a maximum period of one year. The 
strength of non-degree students in any program should not be more 
than 25% of the program strength. A non-degree student will be 
required to pay all applicable fees depending upon the status, 
program, and nationality. Such students will be governed by all rules, 
regulations and discipline applicable to regular students of the 
Institute. 
 
3.6 Cancellation of Admission
Students admitted provisionally or otherwise to any program
shall submit copies of their mark sheets, provisional certificates, etc., of 
the qualifying examination and other documents by the last date 
specified for the purpose in the Academic Calendar. The Senate 
reserves the right to cancel the admission of any student, if 
(a) she/he fails to submit the prescribed documents demonstrating
her/his minimum academic qualification for admission, by the 
specified date or to meet other stipulated requirement(s); and
(b) it is found (at any time later) that the student had provided some
false information or suppressed relevant information while seeking 
admission.

3.7 Fulfilment of Admission Requirements 
 
Admission to M.Sc. Programs requires that the applicant be
eligible, go through the laid-down admission procedure, and pay the 
prescribed fees. All admissions to the M.Sc. Programs should be 
formally approved by the Senate. 
(a) Course Work
M.Sc. students are required to undergo coursework at the
Institute, offered either by the Departments with which the M.Sc. 
student is associated or by any other Department (in case of 
Electives). The minimum number of post-graduate level courses, 
which the M.Sc. student should meet to complete the coursework 
requirement is 10. Normal load per Semester is 5 courses. An M.Sc. 
student is required to complete a minimum of 60 credits of which 
30 credits will be through course work over first two semesters, 
and 30 credits through Thesis work over the last two semesters.
(b) Thesis Submission
After completing the coursework, M.Sc. students will be
involved in one year of active research towards their M.Sc. Thesis. 
The Thesis Examination shall be coordinated by the Supervisor and 
at least two other Faculty Members from the Institute nominated 
by the Supervisor and approved by the Coordinator (Academics). The 
Supervisor will be solely responsible for the grading of her/his 
M.Sc. student’s Thesis to be “acceptable” or “not acceptable”, with 
letter grades S and X respectively.
4. COURSEWORK REQUIREMENTS 
4.1 Academic Load
Each course is given a weightage called credits. The number of
credits of each course is based on the number of contact hours for 
lectures, tutorials, and practicals. A typical post-graduate course is of 
3-4 credits. Credits will be assigned to the courses based on the 
following general pattern: 
(a) One credit for each lecture class of 50 minutes; 
(b) One credit for each tutorial class of 50 minutes; and 
(c) One credit for each laboratory or practical class of three hours.

4.2 Registration
Students are required to register each semester for the courses
as per the Program, on the dates specified in the Academic Calendar. 
After the successful completion of the required courses, a M.Sc. student 
must continue to register in the following semester till she/he submits 
her/his Thesis. 
 
4.3 Registration Procedure
A list of courses to be offered in the next semester will be
announced online by the AC. Students shall pre-register for courses. 
The registration procedure involves 
(a) Online filling of the registration form with courses proposed to be
credited in the semester;
(b) Payment of fees and clearance of outstanding dues (if any); and 
(c) Signing of the registration roll at the office of the coordinator of the
department hosting the M.Sc. Program.
A fresh student joining the Institute, who is awaiting the final
results of the qualifying examination, is allowed to register 
provisionally on submission of a certificate from her/his last Institute 
stating that she/he has appeared in the final examination of the 
qualifying degree. The student is required to submit documents of 
having passed the qualifying examination by the last date given in the 
Academic Calendar for the registration to be regularized. 
 
4.4 Late Registration
If for any compelling reason, like illness, a student is unable to
register on the day of registration, she/he can register before the late 
registration date of registration specified in the academic calendar. If a 
student seeks prior permission to register late on other valid grounds, 
Chairman, AC, may allow late registration. Beyond the date of late 
registration, no student will be allowed to register. In special cases, the 
final decision will rest with the Senate. 
 
4.5 Adding and Dropping of Courses
A student may add or drop course(s) within one week of the
beginning of the semester or the last date(s) specified in the Academic 
Calendar. For this, the student must fill the appropriate form, get it

Program Credits to be earned (at least)
Compulsory Elective Course Thesis Total Total
endorsed by the Instructor of the course being added, and submit the 
same to the AC. No permission is required to drop a course. 
 
4.6 Cancellation of Registration
Absence for a period of four or more weeks during a semester
shall result in automatic cancellation of the registration of a student 
from all the courses in that semester. 
 
4.7 Minimum Credit requirements
An M.Sc. student shall be declared to complete her/his credit
requirements if she/he has earned the minimum number of credits as 
shown below in Table 3.
Table 3: Minimum Credit Requirements for M.Sc. Program
5. TEACHING AND EVALUATION 
5.1 Teaching 
(a) Medium of Instruction
The medium of instruction of all courses shall be ENGLISH.
(b) Approval of Courses
Each course along with its weight in terms of credits is
approved by the Senate. Only approved courses may be offered 
during any semester/summer-term.
(c) List of Courses
The list of courses to be offered in a M.Sc. Program is finalized
before the beginning of the semester, by the department hosting 
that Program.
(d) Conduct of Courses
Each course shall be conducted by the Faculty Member with the
assistance of required Teaching Assistants, as required. The Faculty 
Member is responsible for conducting the course: teaching in the 
class, holding the examinations, evaluating the performance of 
students, awarding the grades at the end of the semester, and

submitting the grades to AC within 72 hours of the completion of 
the final examination.
(e) Teaching Assignments
Prior to each semester, the Head of the department hosting the
M.Sc. Program shall request the faculty members for providing a 
list of courses being floated by faculty members of the department. 
The Head of department shall hold a meeting of all its faculty 
members to identify names of faculty members offering the courses 
of the next semester.
(f) Auditing of Courses
A student may audit any number of courses beyond the
prescribed minimum number of courses. Students wishing to audit 
a course shall seek the consent of the Instructor of the course being 
audited. No grade will be awarded to students auditing a course; 
the Instructor may require such students to submit all homeworks 
and term papers during the semester just like the students, who are 
crediting the course.
5.2 Attendance Requirements
A student should have full attendance in each course. Unless
the student takes leave of absence for valid reasons, the student has to 
attend every lecture, tutorial, or lab session. If a student is absent 
without any reason, the Instructor would send him a warning by 
email. If the student’s attendance falls below 80% then the Instructor 
will notify the Academic Section and a letter will be sent to the 
student’s parents. If the student still does not attend the classes 
regularly, then the Instructor can deregister the student from the 
course. Once a student is deregistered from a course, that course will 
not show up in the grade-card of the student. 
 
5.3 Evaluation 
 
The performance of students in a course is evaluated in a
continuous basis, using their interaction in the classroom, and 
performances in examinations, the laboratory work (if any), and term-
papers and projects.

S.No. Mid- Mid- End- Homeworks Term Laboratory
Semester 1 Semester 2 Semester Projects
(a) Schedule of Examinations
Each course shall have two mid-semester and one end-semester
examinations; the mid-semester examinations shall be of 60 
minutes duration and the final examination of 180 minutes. The 
weightages of elements of evaluation in different courses are listed 
in Table 4.
(b) Make-up Examinations
No make-up examinations are admissible for any reason. But, if
a student fails to appear in any examination (two mid-semester and 
one end semester examinations) for a genuine reason (such as 
illness), she/he may make a request to AC for a make-up 
examination within two days of the date of the scheduled 
examination; a certificate shall be furnished from the Medical 
Officer of the Institute Health Center, when illness being the reason 
for absence from the examination. In such cases, the marks 
obtained in the other elements of evaluation shall be prorated for 
the examination missed. When two examinations are missed in a 
course, the prorating is done for only one examination; the marks 
in the other examination shall be taken as zero.
5.4 Grading System 
(a) Grades and Grade Points
At the end of the semester, a student is awarded a relative letter
grade in each course by the Instructor offering the course 
considering the performance of the student during the semester 
with respect to those of the other students registered in the course. 
Five regular letter grades, namely A, B, C, D and F shall be 
awarded in each course for M.Sc. students. Each letter grade is 
associated with a numerical equivalent on a 10-point scale (called

S.No. Letter Grade Comment
Grade Points
3 C 6 Marginal
6 I - Incomplete
7 S - These grades are given for the M.Sc. Thesis work. If a
student earns three X grades for M.Sc. Thesis in any three
semesters, the M.Sc. Program of the student shall be
terminated.
8 W - This grade would appear on the Grade Card with an
explanatory note that it stands for waiver granted due to
courses credited and/or work done at the selected institute
elsewhere. All such courses and/or requirements will be
deemed to carry zero credits for SGPA/CGPA calculations.
Grade Point) shown in Table 5. The grades shall be submitted to the 
AC within 72 hours after the end semester examination.
A student is awarded ‘I’ grade in a course, when the student
fails to appear in the end-semester examination for a genuine 
reason. The student shall appear for a make-up examination within 
the first week of the next semester and seek to convert the ‘I’ grade 
into one of the regular grades, at least one day before the last date 
of add drop in the next semester. Any ‘I’ grade remaining after this 
date shall be converted automatically into an ‘F’ grade.
An M.Sc. student securing a D grade in any of the courses will
have to either repeat the course (if the course is a compulsory 
course) or repeat/substitute it with another relevant course (if the 
course is an elective course).
(b) Change of Grade Already Awarded
A letter grade once awarded shall not be changed under any
circumstances. Only in exceptional circumstances, the Senate may 
allow the required change.
5.5 Grade Point Averages
The Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) is a weighted average
of the grades earned by a student in all the courses credited by 
her/him and reflects her/his academic performance in the respective

semester. If the grade points associated with the letter grades earned 
by a student in N courses registered during a semester are G1, G2, … 
GN, and the corresponding credits C1, C2, … CN, then the SGPA is given 
by
The Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) indicates the overall
academic performance of a student in all the courses registered up to 
the latest completed semester. The CGPA is computed in a similar 
manner as the SGPA, considering all the courses in all semesters. 
 
5.6 Grade Card and Transcript 
 
A Grade Card shall be issued to each student at the end of each
semester, and a Transcript at the end of the M.Sc. Program. 
 
 
6. TERMINATION 
6.1 Termination from M.Sc. Program 
 
A student may be terminated from the M.Sc. Program by
Senate, if the student 
(a) is absent without authorized leave of absence for a major part of the
semester and does not appear in the end-semester examination of 
the courses in which she/he is registered,
(b) fails to report and register by the last date of registration without a
bona fide reason,
(c) violates the code of conduct, involves in ragging, etc., as confirmed
by a special Institute committee,
(d) does not earn the prescribed minimum number of credits within a
maximum of 2 years from the date of registration, including all 
leaves of absence.
6.2 Appeal against Termination
A student, who is terminated from the M.Sc. Program, can
appeal for reconsideration to the Chairman, Senate. In the appeal, the 
student is expected to give reasons for poor academic performance 
and/or why the termination should be reconsidered. The Senate shall

take a final decision after considering all the available inputs. But, the 
Senate will not entertain any further appeal for review, unless 
substantial additional information is brought to its notice. 
 
 
7. LEAVE
Application for leave of absence should be addressed to the
Chairman, AC, and submitted with a medical certificate, if applicable. 
Usually, leave must not be availed of without prior approval of the AC. 
Applications for all kinds of leave must be submitted well in advance 
of the date of commencement of the leave requested. Student’s absence 
from the Institute without sanctioned leave will entail loss of financial 
assistantship for the period of absence and in extreme circumstances 
may also result in the termination from the respective M.Sc. Program. 
 
7.1 Short Leave 
 
M.Sc. students are entitled for vacation leave up to a maximum
of 15 days per Semester in addition to Public Holidays. Vacation leave 
not availed in a Semester will be carried over to the next Semester up 
to a maximum of 15 days. Leave of absence during the semester shall 
be discouraged for all registered students. For bona fide reasons, the 
student may also be allowed casual leave for up to 5 days per semester.
M.Sc. students may be granted medical leave, duly supported
by a medical certificate, up to a maximum of 15 days per year. Such 
leave shall not entail any loss of financial assistantship. Special Leave 
to attend Seminars and Conferences in India or abroad to present 
research papers, with the recommendation of Supervisor(s), is 
admissible. 
 
7.2 Temporary Withdrawal / Semester Leave
Normally, a student is not allowed to withdraw from the M.Sc.
Program temporarily and is expected to complete the program without 
a break. But, for genuine reasons and/or in exceptional circumstances, 
a student may be allowed to withdraw temporarily on leave of absence 
at the discretion of AC and/or Senate for an extended period. Such 
leave of absence(s) shall ordinarily not exceed one semester with or 
without break during the entire period of the M.Sc. Program. Absence

for a period of four or more weeks in any semester will result in 
automatic withdrawal from all courses in that semester.
A student who remains on authorized leave of absence due to
ill health, is required to submit on return a certificate from a Registered 
Medical Practitioner to the effect that she/he is sufficiently cured and 
is fit to resume her/his studies. The student will be allowed to register 
only when AC is fully satisfied of her/his state of health.
7.3 Permission to Proceed to other Institutions
To help students to broaden their horizons and gain
course/work experience, she/he may be permitted to proceed to other 
academic institutes in India or abroad as a non-degree student. The 
following guidelines and procedures apply for this purpose: 
(1) Eligibility: A student may be allowed to spend up to one semester
and/or 
one 
summer 
terms 
in 
any 
academic
institute/university/industry of repute in India with prior 
permission of AC, if the student has: 
(i) Completed the minimum course work requirement at IIT
Jodhpur; and
(ii) No ‘F’ grade in any course.
(2) Procedure: The student shall make an application to AC through the
Supervisor and Head of the Department hosting the program, 
giving details of the proposed visit, and shall submit a statement of 
purpose 
with 
sufficient 
information 
about 
the
institute/university/industry where she/he has chosen to spend 
time as a non-degree student. The AC will examine the student’s 
request. On the recommendation of the AC, the Senate may 
approve the proposal and grant permission, with leave of absence, 
to the student to proceed as a non-degree student to the selected 
institute /university/industry.

8. REQUIREMENTS FOR GRADUATION 
 
A student is deemed to have completed the requirements for
graduation, if she/he has met the requirements laid down in Clauses 
8.1 to 8.4. 
 
8.1 Minimum Duration of Residence 
 
The minimum duration of residence shall be 2 years from the
date of registration, excluding the periods of leaves of absence, from 
the date of registration. Under no circumstances should students be 
permitted to spend more than 5 semesters to complete the course work 
and 8 semesters for the total programme, including the Thesis work, 
from the date of registration to the programme. 
 
8.2 Academic
An M.Sc. student is said to have completed the course work
requirements, if she/he satisfies the criteria laid down in Sections 4, 
5.3, and 5.4. The student shall be declared to have fulfilled the 
academic requirements if she/he has earned the minimum credits as 
per Table 4. Further, the student should have earned at least a C Grade 
in the minimum number of courses to be completed by her/him. In 
case a student earns a D grade in any of the compulsory course, she/he 
has to repeat the course. 
 
8.3 Payment of Fees and Dues 
 
The student shall pay all admissible fee and dues, and seek a No
DUE CERTIFICATE from the Institute, on completion of the Academic 
Requirements. 
 
8.4 No case of Disciplinary Action
The student shall not have any case of indiscipline pending
against her/him. 
 
8.5 Award of Degrees
A student, who completes all the graduation requirements
specified in Clauses 8.1 to 8.4, is recommended by the Senate to the 
Board of Governors (BOG) for the award of the appropriate degree in 
the ensuing convocation. The degree can be awarded only after the 
BOG accords its approval.

8.6 Withdrawal of Degree
Under extremely exceptional circumstances, where gross
violation of the graduation requirements is detected at a later stage, the 
Senate may recommend to the Board of Governors withdrawal of a 
degree already awarded to the student. 
 
 
9. AMENDMENTS
Notwithstanding anything contained in this document, the
Senate of IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to modify/amend without 
notice, the curricula, procedures, requirements, and rules pertaining to 
its M.Sc. Programs.

Regulations for M.Sc. Programs 
2015