SOURCE_PDF: 93c101f49f76_Guidelines-for-submission-of-Project-Report-for-MTech-Students-638771979333235810.pdf

Annexure I
Guidelines and Format for submission of Project Report
1. 
Length: Number of pages are not fixed A4 size paper
2. 
Page layout / Margins(Top/Bottom/Left/Right): 1-in/1-in/0.75-in/0.75-in
3. 
Text format: Single column/ 1.5 line spacing/ Full-justify
4. 
Font: 12 pt. Times New Roman
5. 
Binding format for the hard copy of the project reports
a. Number of Hard copies -3 
b. Paper Size – A4 
c. Color of the binding - Blue
6. 
Organization of the report:
(a) Cover page 
(b) Declaration by the Student 
(c) Certificate by respective Supervisor 
(d) Abstract – 1 paragraph (max. 150 words only) 
(e) Table of contents 
(f) Main text divided into sections/sub-sections (starting with Introduction and
ending with Conclusions
(g) References 
(h) Appendix (if any)
7. 
Page numbering: All pages before the main text are to be numbered using lower case 
Roman numbers; all pages starting from the main text are to be numbered using Arabic 
numbers. Page numbers to be placed at the center of the bottom margin; cover pages 
should not be numbered but counted.
8. 
Section headings: Section/sub-sections to be numbered consecutively using Arabic 
numbers; section headings should be in bold with all capital letters and sub-sections 
headings in italics, e.g. 1. INTRODUCTION for sections, 4.2 Experimental validations 
for sub-sections. Font size for section headings should be14 pt.
9. 
Equations: Equations are to be centered and numbered consecutively with equation 
number in parentheses flushed with the right margin; equation number should be section 
specific, e.g. (1.2), (1.3), (2.3), etc.; equations should be referenced in the text as eqn. 
(1.2), eqn. (2.3) and so on.
10. 
Figures: Figures are to be centered and numbered consecutively; figure numbers should 
be section specific; figures should be referenced in the text as Figure 2.3 and so on. All 
figures must have a caption; figure number and caption to be placed center-flushed below 
the figure, e.g. Figure 2.2: Circuit diagram of the…….
11. 
Tables: Tables are to be centered and numbered consecutively; table numbers should be 
section specific; table should be referenced in the text as Table 1.2, Table 2.3 and so on. 
All the tables must have a caption; table number and caption to be placed center-flushed 
above the table, e.g. Table 4.1: Experimental Results…….
12. 
References: Arrange references in order of their citation in the text; to be numbered 
consecutively in square brackets following standard IEEE format.
13. 
Turn-it-in/plagiarism Report: Turn-it-in/plagiarism report duly signed by Supervisor must 
be submitted along with the submission (in 1 report original and in the other a copy may 
be enclosed).
14. 
Any other: The format of any other item(s) not mentioned in the above list may be assumed 
in consultation with Supervisor.

Format For Cover page
Title of the Project Report
A Project Report submitted by
Name of the Student
in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the award of the degree of
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Name of the Department
January 2021

Declaration
I hereby declare that the work presented in this Project Report titled Title of the Project Report –
M.Sc./M.Sc.-M.Tech./M.Tech. submitted to the Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur in partial fulfilment 
of the requirements for the award of the degree of M.Sc./M.Sc.-M.Tech./M.Tech., is a bonafide record of 
the research work carried out under the supervision of Professor Name of the respective Supervisor. The 
contents of this Project Report in full or in parts, have not been submitted to, and will not be submitted by 
me to, any other Institute or University in India or abroad for the award of any degree or diploma.
Signature
Name of the Student
Roll Number
Certificate
This is to certify that the Project Report titled Title of the Project Report, submitted by Name of the Student (Roll 
Number of the student) to the Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur for the award of the degree of M.Sc./M.Sc.-
M.Tech./M.Tech., is a bonafide record of the research work done by him under my supervision. To the best of my

knowledge, the contents of this report, in full or in parts, have not been submitted to any other Institute or 
University for the award of any degree or diploma.
Signature
Name of the respective supervisor

Abstract
The M.Sc./M.Sc.-M.Tech./M.Tech. Program of study requires each student to undertake research in
the chosen area of study and to submit a thesis on it in consultation with the faculty member(s) supervising 
the same. The M.Sc./M.Sc.-M.Tech./M.Tech. Project is included in the curriculum with a view to synthesize 
the various components of the research work undertaken during the of the M.Sc./M.Sc.-M.Tech./M.Tech. 
Program at IIT Jodhpur. Creating a Project Report document of the research undertaken is part of the skill 
building training of the student in technical communications. Here, the emphasis is on presenting a technical 
matter in an objective written form.
This document is a record of the mandatory guidelines to be followed while preparing the of the
Project Report document to be submitted at the end of the M.Sc./M.Sc.-M.Tech./M.Tech. Program. It 
prescribes typical contents that an M.Sc./M.Sc.-M.Tech./M.Tech. Project Report document usually should 
contain, and provides the format of its presentation. While most of these guidelines are prescriptive, some 
are subjective; but towards ensuring a relatively uniform style of presentation of all M.Sc./M.Sc.-
M.Tech./M.Tech. Project Report being submitted at the Institute, these subjective guidelines are expected 
to help in setting at least a reasonable minimum expectation of the presentation level of the work 
accomplished in the research program.
All students pursuing M.Sc./M.Sc.-M.Tech./M.Tech. Program are urged to read the contents and
form of this document carefully, and prepare their Project Report document as prescribed. It is hoped that 
this document will lead to a modest beginning at the Institute towards imparting education in professional 
written presentations.

Contents
page
Abstract 
1
(report may or may not be divided into chapters)
Introduction and background
Literature survey
Problem definition and Objective
Methodology

References
Appendix (if any)