SOURCE_PDF: 995ef288123d_Dressing_-Cleaning_-Levelling-and-Fencing-work-for-Hydrogen-Valley-Project-at-Pocket-B-.pdf

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
NH-65 NAGOUR ROAD KARWAR JODHPUR
Index of Tender documents
Sr. No. 
DETAILS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PAGE NO.
1. Index 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1-1
2. Tender Notice with Performa for Earnest Money Deposit Declaration 
2-7
3. Form “F” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 - 8
4. Terms & condition including IITJ/CPWD Form 7/8 
 
 
 
9-39
5. Special Conditions of Contract 
 
 
 
 
 
40-43
6. Special terms & Conditions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44-44
7. Make List 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 45-47
8. Schedule of Quantities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
48-48
9. Special Condition of BOQ 49-49
10. Prize Bid 50-50
This Tender document contains pages One to Fifty only. 
 
NIT Amounting to Rs. 11,24,922.00 (Rupees Eleven Lacs Twenty-Four Thousand Nine Hundred Twenty-Two 
Only)
Dean of Infrastructure Planning,
For & on Behalf of Director, IIT Jodhpur

NOTICE INVITING E-TENDERS
Dean of Infrastructure Planning Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur on behalf of Director invites online 
Percentage Rate Tender from Firms/ Contractors for the following work: 
 
1. NIT No 
 
: 
 IITJ/OIE/2025-26/14
3. Sub Head 
: 
Civil Work
4. Estimated cost 
: 
Rs. 11,24,922.00
5. Earnest Money 
: 
Rs. 22,499.00
6. Period of completion : 
01 Months
7. Last time & date of submission of bid: 30.10.2025 up to 4:00 pm (on line)
The bid forms and other details can be obtained from the website wwww.iitj.ac.in or www.e-
procure.gov.in free of cost. For more clarification you may visit on above website.
Dean of Infrastructure Planning,
For & on Behalf of Director, IIT Jodhpur
Copy to: - 
 
1. 
Associate Dean (Infra-Civil/Electrical)
2. 
Superintending Engineer
3. 
Executive Engineer (Civil)
4. 
Assistant Executive Engineer (Civil/Electrical)
5. 
DR (OIE, Accounts)
6. 
Office Copy

SL.
No. NIT
No. Name of Work Estimated
Cost
(in Rs.) Earnest
Money
(in Rs.) Tender
Fees
(in Rs.) Time for
completion
1 41/62-5202/EIO/JTII Name of work: - Dressing,
Cleaning, Levelling and
Fencing work for Hydrogen
Valley Project at Pocket B in
IIT Jodhpur.
Sub Head:- Civil Work 11,24,922.00 22,499.00 500.00 01 Months
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, JODHPUR
NH-62 NAGAUR ROAD KARWAR JODHPUR
INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS FOR BIDDERS FOR e-TENDERING (Tender Notice)
The Dean of Infrastructure Planning, IIT Jodhpur on behalf of Director invite online Percentage Rate Tender from 
Firms/ Contractors Registered in appropriate class and category with CPWD, MES, BSNL, Railways, State -PWD 
for Civil works of the following work:
Last date and time of submission of financial & Technical bid :- 30.10.2025 up to 4:00 PM (online)
Date and time of opening of Online Technical bid 
 
:- 31.10.2025 at 4:00 PM
Price/Financial bids of eligible bidders as per NIT shall be opened at a later date after scrutiny of Technical
1. The successful bidders shall be required to submit a performance guarantee of 5% of the tendered amount in
the form of Bank Guarantee or F.D.R. from a Nationalized/Scheduled Bank within 07 days of issue of letter of 
intent before award of work. In case of failure by the Contractor to supply the performance guarantee within 
the specified period, full earnest money will be forfeited and the tender shall be treated as void. The 
performance guarantee shall be initially valid up to the stipulated date of completion plus 06 months beyond 
that.
2. Contractors who fulfill the following requirements shall be eligible to apply. Joint ventures are not accepted.
i) 
 One similar Civil work amounting to Rs. 8,99,938.00
Or
ii) 
Two similar Civil work and each single work amounting to Rs. 6,74,953.00
Or
iii) 
Three similar Civil work and each single work amounting to Rs. 4,49,969.00
iv) 
Earnest money of Rs. 22,499.00 in the form of Banker’s cheque or Demand draft or fixed deposit receipt
of a schedule bank drawn in favour of Revenue Account, I.I.T. Jodhpur or online payment as per

details given in NIT. No relaxation in EMD will be allowed for MSME and MSEs as per CPWD works 
manual.
3. The intending bidder must read the terms and conditions of IITJ/CPWD-6 carefully. He should only submit his
bid if he considers himself eligible and he is in possession of all the documents required.
4. No exemption for submission of EMD/experience of work shall be allowed for MSME. 
5. Information and Instructions for bidders posted on website shall form part of bid document. 
6. The bid document consisting of plans, specifications, the schedule of quantities of various types of items to be
executed and the set of terms and conditions of the contract to be complied with and other necessary 
documents can be seen and downloaded from website http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app in free of cost.
7. Completion certificates issued by an officer not below the rank of Executive Engineer of similar works
completed by the Agency.
8. Work means only work under Government/ Public Sector Under taking / Autonomous bodies. 
9. Similar work defined in point no. 2 
10. The value of executed work shall be brought to current costing level by enhancing the actual value of work at
simple rate of 7% per annum calculated from the date of completion to last date of submission of financial bid.
11. IIT Jodhpur is committed to follow the principle of transparency, equity and competitiveness in public
procurement. Before submission of bid each bidder should sign integrity pact at respective places and submit 
the bid, if duly signed integrity pact is not submitted by bidder such bid shall not be considered.
12. Those contractors not registered on the website mentioned above, are required to get registered beforehand. If
needed they can be imparted training on online bidding process as per details available on the website
13. The intending bidder must have valid class-III digital signature to submit the bid. 
14. On opening date, the contractor can login and see the bid opening process. After opening of bids he will receive
the competitor bid sheets.
15. Contractor can upload documents in the form of JPG format and PDF format. 
16. The department reserves the right to reject any prospective application without assigning any reason and to
restrict the list of qualified contractors to any number deemed suitable by it, if too many bids are received 
satisfying the laid down criterion.
17. In e-Tendering intending bidder can quote his rates in figures only. The rates in words, amount of each item
and total is generated automatically. Therefore, the rate quoted by the bidder in figures is to be taken as correct.
18. The bid can only be submitted after uploading the mandatory scanned documents such as Demand Draft or
Pay order or Banker’s Cheque or Deposit at call Receipt or Fixed Deposit Receipts and towards cost of (if 
applicable) in favour of Director, I.I.T. Jodhpur to be deposited with http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app / 
NEFT facility.
19. The EMD undertaking uploaded shall be deposited by the lowest tenderer within a week after opening of
financial bid failing which the tender shall be rejected.
20. The following undertaking in this regard shall be uploaded by intending bidders “EMD declaration as per
page-07 duly signed and uploaded with Technical bid.
21. Copy of enlistment order and certificate of work experience and other documents as specified in the Press
Notice / web notice shall be scanned and up-loaded to the e-Tendering website within the period of bid 
submission. However, certified / original copy of all the scanned and up-loaded documents as specified in 
press notice web / notice shall have to be submitted by the lowest bidder only along with physical EMD 
Declaration of the scanned copy of EMD Declaration uploaded within a week physically in the office of e-
tendering authority and it shall be sole responsibility of lowest bidder.
22. Online bid documents submitted by intending bidders shall be opened only of those bidders, who has Filled
EMD declaration as per page-07 and other documents scanned and uploaded are found in order.
23. The bid submitted shall become invalid if:
a. The bidder is found ineligible if he fails to download documents from give in tender notice. 
b. The bidder does not upload all the documents (including GST registration) as stipulated in the bid
document including the undertaking as per EMD declaration as per page-07.
c. 
If any discrepancy is noticed between the documents as uploaded at the time of submission of bid 
and hard copies as submitted physically in the office of tender opening authority.
d. The lowest bidder does not deposit original EMD Declaration within a week of opening of
e. In the event of tender being submitted by a firm, it must be signed separately by each partner
thereof or in the event of the absence of any partner, it must be signed on his behalf by a person

holding a power of attorney authorizing him to do so, such power of attorney to be produced with 
the tender, and it must disclose that the firm is duly registered under the Indian Partnership Act 
1932, above not submitted.
24. Bid validity shall be 75 days after opening of bids. 
25. List of Documents to be scanned and uploaded within the period of bid submission:
I. 
Performa of EMD declaration (duly filled & signed by the bidders) as given on page-07
II. 
Enlistment order of contractor.
III. 
Attested certificate of work experience.
IV. 
Certificate of Registration for GST and acknowledgement of up to date filed return of GST.
V. 
Affidavit as per Notice Inviting Tender Condition 1.3 page 21 of NIT.
1. Affidavit shall be purchased /notorised on or after NIT published date but on or before last date of 
 submission of NIT. 
2. Affidavit must have “NIT/tender reference number” and “Name of work” and shall be used once for 
 each fresh tender as per following. 
3. No back dated affidavit shall be entertained and non-compliance of point (i) & (ii) shall lead to rejection of 
the tender.
I/We undertake and confirm that eligible similar works(s) has/have not been got executed through 
another contractor on back-to-back basis. Further that, if such a violation comes to the notice of 
Department, then I/we shall be debarred for tendering in IITJ in future forever. Also, if such a violation 
comes to the notice of Department before date of start of work, the Engineer-in-Charge shall be free to 
forfeit the entire amount of Earnest Money Deposit/Performance Guarantee. (Scanned copy to be 
uploaded at the time of submission of bid).
VI. 
Acceptance to execute INTEGRITY PACT.
VII. 
EMD Declaration Proforma as per Page 07
IX. 
FORM “F” (Duly filled with all required details).
X. 
Tender Fee of Rs. 500.00 - in favor of IITJ to be deposited in IITJ Canara Bank ( A/s No. 3399101000631 & IFSC 
CNRB0003399) and receipt copy to be scanned & uploaded in tender (technical bid) or this fees can be directly 
RTGS to Director IIT Jodhpur and its proof to be uploaded in technical bid
XI. 
“In case of partnership firm, submission of power of Attorney on a non-judicial stamp paper, duly signed by all 
partners of the bidding firm is mandatory without which bidding firm tender shall be rejected.”
*Name of work/ NIT no. should be clearly mention on every undertaking, Affidavit etc.

Proforma for Earnest Money Deposit Declaration 
( Duly sealed and signed by Bidders on Firms letter head)
Whereas, I/We ……………………….. (Name of Agency)……………………. have submitted bids for ………… 
(Name of work)………………… . 
I/We here by submit following declaration in lieu of submitting Earnest Money Deposit. 
 
1. If, after the opening of tender, I/We withdraw or modify my/our Rate during the period of validity of tender/
quotation (Including extended validity of tender/ quotation) specified in the tender/ quotation documents.
Or
2. If, after the award of work, I/We fail to sign the contract, or to submit performance guarantee before the
deadline defined in the tender documents.
I/We shall be suspended for one year and shall not be eligible to bid for IIT Jodhpur tenders from the date of issue 
of suspension orders.
Signature of Contractor (s)
For & on Behalf of DIRECTOR, IIT Jodhpur

FORM “F”
STRUCTURE & ORGANISATION
1. Name & Address of the bidder
2. Telephone no./ Telex no./ Fax no.
3. Legal status of the bidder (attach copies of original document defining the legal status)
a. An Individual
b. A proprietary firm
c. 
A firm in partnership
d. A limited company or Corporation
4. Particulars of registration with various Government Bodies (attach attested photocopy)
Organization/ Place of registration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registration No.
5. Name and Title of Directors & Officers with designation to
be concerned with this work……………………………………………………………………………………..!
6. Designation of individuals authorized to act for the organization……………………………………………!
7. 
Has the bidder or any constituent partner in case of partnership
firm, ever abandoned the awarded work before its completion?
If so, give name of the project and reasons for abandonment………………………………………………!
8. 
Has the bidder or any constituent partner in case of partnership
firm, ever been debarred/ black listed for tendering in any organization
at any time? If so, give details…………………………………………………………………………………...!
9. 
Has the bidder, or any constituent partner in case of partnership firm,
ever been convicted by the court of law? If so, give details………………………………………………….!
10. Past work experience in IIT Jodhpur will be considered in deciding the Technical bid……………………….!
Signature of Bidder(S)

Details of the item As per Tender Notice
Earnest Money Deposit to
be submitted As per Tender Notice
Warranty As per Tender Notice, NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Performance security As per Tender Notice, NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Notice Inviting Tender
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
NH-65 NAGOUR ROAD KARWAR JODHPUR
Terms & Conditions
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur in is in the process of purchasing following item(s) as per details as given as 
under.
Tender 
Documents 
may 
be 
downloaded 
from 
Central 
Public 
Procurement 
Portal
http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app.Aspiring Bidders who have not enrolled / registered in e-procurement should 
enroll / register before participating through the website http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app . The portal enrolment 
is free of cost. Bidders are advised to go through instructions provided at ‘Instructions for online Bid Submission ‘. 
 
 
Tenderers can access tender documents on the website (For searching in the NIC site, kindly go to Tender Search 
option and type ‘IIT’. Thereafter, Click on “GO” button to view all IIT Jodhpur tenders). Select the appropriate tender 
and fill them with all relevant information and submit the completed tender document online on the website 
http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app as per the schedule given in the next page. 
 
No manual bids will be accepted. All quotes (both Technical and Financial should be submitted in the E-procurement 
portal).

Tender Type
(Open/Limited/EOI/Auction/Single) Open
Tender Category (Services/Goods/works) Works
Type/Form of Contract (Work/Supply/
Auction/Service/Buy/Empanelment/ Sell) Works
Product Category (Civil Works/Electrical
Works/Fleet Management/ Computer Systems) Civil
Source of Fund (Institute/Project) Department
Is Multi Currency Allowed No
Date of Issue/Publishing 09.10.2025
Document Download/Sale Start Date 09.10.2025
Document Download/Sale End Date 30.10.2025
Date for Pre-Bid Conference NA
Venue of Pre-Bid Conference NA
Last Date and Time for Uploading of Bids As per Tender Notice
Date and Time of Opening of Technical Bids As per Tender Notice
Tender Fee As per Tender Notice
(To be paid through RTGS/NEFT. IIT Jodhpur Bank details
are as under:
Name of the Bank A/C : Revenue Account IIT Jodhpur
Canara Bank A/C No. : 3399101000631
Name of the Bank : Canara Bank IIT Jodhpur,
IFSC Code CNRB0003399
MICR Code : 342015501
(This is mandatory that UTR Number is provided in the on-
line quotation/bid. (Kindly refer to the UTR Column of the
Declaration Sheet at Annexure-II) or as per NIT/ Tender
notice
No. of Covers (1/2/3/4) NA
Bid Validity days 75 days (From last date of opening of bids)
Address for Communication Superintending Engineer, Office of Infrastructure
Engineering, W-1 Berm, IIT Jodhpur
Contact No. 0291-2801057/63
Email Address oie@iitj.ac.in
Schedule

Instructions for Online Bid Submission:
As per the directives of Department of Expenditure, this tender document has been published on the Central Public 
Procurement Portal (URL:http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app). The bidders are required to submit soft copies of 
their bids electronically on the CPP Portal, using valid Digital Signature Certificates. The instructions given below are 
meant to assist the bidders in registering on the CPP Portal, prepare their bids in accordance with the requirements 
and submitting their bids online on the CPP Portal.
More information useful for submitting online bids on the CPP Portal may be obtained at:
REGISTRATION
1) 
Bidders are required to enroll on the e-Procurement module of the Central Public Procurement Portal 
(URL:http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app) by clicking on the link “Click here to Enroll”. Enrolment on the 
CPP Portal is free of charge.
2) 
As part of the enrolment process, the bidders will be required to choose a unique username and assign a 
password for their accounts.
3) 
Bidders are advised to register their valid email address and mobile numbers as part of the registration process. 
These would be used for any communication from the CPP Portal.
4) 
Upon enrolment, the bidders will be required to register their valid Digital Signature Certificate (Class II or 
Class III Certificates with signing key usage) issued by any Certifying Authority recognized by CCA India (e.g. 
Sify / TCS / nCode / eMudhra etc.), with their profile.
5) 
Only one valid DSC should be registered by a bidder. Please note that the bidders are responsible to ensure that 
they do not lend their DSCs to others which may lead to misuse.
6) 
Bidder then logs in to the site through the secured log-in by entering their userID / password and the password 
of the DSC / eToken.
SEARCHING FOR TENDER DOCUMENTS
1) 
There are various search options built in the CPP Portal, to facilitate bidders to search active tenders by several 
parameters. These parameters could include Tender ID, organization name, location, date, value, etc. There is 
also an option of advanced search for tenders, wherein the bidders may combine a number of search parameters 
such as organization name, form of contract, location, date, other keywords etc. to search for a tender published 
on the CPP Portal.
2) 
Once the bidders have selected the tenders they are interested in, they may download the required documents / 
tender schedules. These tenders can be moved to the respective ‘My Tenders’ folder. This would enable the CPP 
Portal to intimate the bidders through SMS / e-mail in case there is any corrigendum issued to the tender 
document.
3) 
The bidder should make a note of the unique Tender ID assigned to each tender, in case they want to obtain any 
clarification / help from the Helpdesk.
PREPARATION OF BIDS
1) 
Bidder should take into account any corrigendum published on the tender document before submitting their 
bids.

2) 
Please go through the tender advertisement and the tender document carefully to understand the documents 
required to be submitted as part of the bid. Please note the number of covers in which the bid documents have 
to be submitted, the number of documents - including the names and content of each of the document that need 
to be submitted. Any deviations from these may lead to rejection of the bid.
3) 
Bidder, in advance, should get ready the bid documents to be submitted as indicated in the tender document / 
schedule and generally, they can be in PDF / XLS / RAR / DWF formats. Bid documents may be scanned with 
100 dpi with black and white option.
4) 
To avoid the time and effort required in uploading the same set of standard documents which are required to be 
submitted as a part of every bid, a provision of uploading such standard documents (e.g. PAN card copy, 
annual reports, auditor certificates etc.) has been provided to the bidders. Bidders can use “My Space” area 
available to them to upload such documents. These documents may be directly submitted from the “My Space” 
area while submitting a bid, and need not be uploaded again and again. This will lead to a reduction in the time 
required for bid submission process.
SUBMISSION OF BIDS
1) 
Bidder should log into the site well in advance for bid submission so that he/she upload the bid in time i.e. on 
or before the bid submission time. Bidder will be responsible for any delay due to other issues.
2) 
The bidder has to digitally sign and upload the required bid documents one by one as indicated in the tender 
document.
3) 
Bidder has to select the payment option as “on-line” to pay the tender fee / EMD as applicable and enter details 
of the instrument. Whenever, EMD / Tender fees are sought, bidders need to pay the tender fee and EMD 
separately on-line through RTGS or scan copy of original demand draft (Refer to Schedule, Page No.3).
4) 
A standard BoQ format has been provided with the tender document to be filled by all the bidders. Bidders are 
requested to note that they should necessarily submit their financial bids in the format provided and no other 
format is acceptable. Bidders are required to download the BoQ file, open it and complete the white coloured 
(unprotected) cells with their respective financial quotes and other details (such as name of the bidder). No 
other cells should be changed. Once the details have been completed, the bidder should save it and submit it 
online, without changing the filename. If the BoQ file is found to be modified by the bidder, the bid will be 
rejected.
OR
In some cases, Financial Bids can be submitted in PDF format as well (in lieu of BOQ).
5) 
The server time (which is displayed on the bidders’ dashboard) will be considered as the standard time for 
referencing the deadlines for submission of the bids by the bidders, opening of bids etc. The bidders should 
follow this time during bid submission.
6) 
All the documents being submitted by the bidders would be encrypted using PKI encryption techniques to 
ensure the secrecy of the data. The data entered cannot be viewed by unauthorized persons until the time of bid 
opening. The confidentiality of the bids is maintained using the secured Socket Layer 128 bit encryption 
technology. Data storage encryption of sensitive fields is done.
7) 
The uploaded tender documents become readable only after the tender opening by the authorized bid openers.
8) 
Upon the successful and timely submission of bids, the portal will give a successful bid submission message & a 
bid summary will be displayed with the bid no. and the date & time of submission of the bid with all other 
relevant details.
9) 
Kindly add scanned PDF of all relevant documents in a single PDF file of compliance sheet.

ASSISTANCE TO BIDDERS
1. 
Any queries relating to the tender document and the terms and conditions contained therein should be 
addressed to the Tender Inviting Authority for a tender or the relevant contact person indicated in the tender.
2. 
Any queries relating to the process of online bid submission or queries relating to CPP Portal in general may be 
directed to the 24x7 CPP Portal Helpdesk. The contact number for the helpdesk is 1800 233 7315.
General Instructions to the Bidders
1) 
 The tenders will be received online through portal http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app . In the Technical 
Bids, the bidders are required to upload all the documents in .pdf format.
2) 
Possession of a Valid Class II/III Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) in the form of smart card/e-token in the 
company's name is a prerequisite for registration and participating in the bid submission activities through 
https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app . Digital Signature Certificates can be obtained from the authorized 
certifying agencies, details of which are available in the web site https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app under 
the link “Information about DSC”.
3) 
Tenderer are advised to follow the instructions provided in the ‘Instructions to the Tenderer for the e-
submission of the bids online through the Central Public Procurement Portal for e Procurement at 
https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app.

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
Tenders have been invited on the basis of standard Forms 7/8 and General Conditions of contract for the work in 
Central Public Works Department (CPWD). However, in the contact of IIT Jodhpur, the following terms may be 
read as:
S. 
 As per Standard Forms 
 
 
 
To be read as
I) 
 President of India 
 
 
 
Director, IIT Jodhpur
II) 
Government of India 
 
 
 
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
III) 
Central Public Works Departments 
 
Office of Infrastructure Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
IV) 
Chief Engineer, CPWD 
 Dean of Infrastructure Planning, IIT Jodhpur
V) 
Circle Office 
 
 
 
 
Office of Infrastructure Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
Dean of Infrastructure Planning
Office of Infrastructure Engineering

S. No. Specification Specification
1. Due date: The tender has to be submitted on-line before the due date. The offers received after the due date
and time will not be considered. No manual bids will be considered. Due date: The tender has to be submitted on-line before the due date. The offers received after the due date
2. Preparation of Bids: The offer/bid should be submitted in two bid systems (i.e.) Technical bid and financial
bid. The technical bid should consist of all technical details along with commercial terms and conditions.
Financial bid should indicate item wise price for the items mentioned in the technical bid in the given format
i.e BOQ_XXXX.
OR
Financial Bids to be submitted in Excel.
The Technical bid and the financial bid should be submitted Online.
3. EMD (if applicable): As per NIT EMD (if applicable): As per NIT
4. Refund of EMD :- As per NIT Refund of EMD :- As per NIT
5. Opening of the tender: As per Tender Notice, NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
6. Acceptance/ Rejection of bids: The Committee reserves the right to reject any or all offers without assigning
a ny reason. Acceptance/ Rejection of bids: The Committee reserves the right to reject any or all offers without assigning
7. P re-qualification criteria: - Mentioned in Tender notice P re-qualification criteria: - Mentioned in Tender notice
8. Performance Security:- Mentioned in Tender notice
9. Force Majeure :- As per IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
10. Risk & Cost Clause : As per IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
11. Delivery and Documents: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
12. D elayed delivery: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8 D elayed delivery: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
13. Prices: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
14. Progress of Work : As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
15. I nspection and Tests: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
16. 16. R esolution of Disputes: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
17. Applicable Law: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
18. Supplier Integrity : As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
19. 19. Training : As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8 Training : As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
20. I nstallation & Demonstration : As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
21. I ncidental services: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
22. 22. Defect liability Period : As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
23. Governing Language : As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
24. Applicable Law : As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
25. Notices : As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Terms & Conditions Details

26. Taxes : As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
27. Termination for Default : As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8 Termination for Default : As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
28. Disputes and Jurisdiction: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8 Disputes and Jurisdiction: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
29. Completion certificate: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8

S.No. Technical Bid Requirement As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8(Duly
attested) Compliance Y/N
1 Firm registration
2 GST Registration
3 GST Return
5 Work Completion Certificate
6 Undertaking on Firm’s Letter Head
7 Affidavit as per Notice Inviting Tender Condition 1.3 page 20 of NIT.
8 INTEGRITY PACT
9 Annexure 1
10 Annexure 2
11 Annexure 3
12 EMD Declaration as per Page 7
13 Scanned Copy of EMD Deposition
14 Tender Fee
15 FORM “F” (Duly filled with all required details)
COMPLIANCE SHEET
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION
I have also enclosed all relevant documents in support of my claims, (as above) in the following pages.
Signature of Bidder
Organization Name: __________________________
Contact No. : ____________________________

We, further specifically certify that our
organization has not been Black Listed/De
Listed or put to any Holiday by any
Institutional Agency/ Govt. Department/
Public Sector Undertaking in the last three
years. NAME & ADDRESS OF
THE Vendor/ Manufacturer / Agent
<< Organization Letter Head >>
DECLARATION SHEET
(Signature of the Tenderer)
Seal of the Company

Name of the organization Name of Contact Person Contact No.
As per Tende r Notice & NIT
List of Govt. Organization/ Deptt.

Sl. No. Documents Content File Types
1. Technical Bid Compliance Sheet as per Annexure – I .PDF
2. Organization Declaration Sheet as per Annexure – II .PDF
3. List of organizations/ clients where the similar works has
been executed as per NIT along with their contact number(s).
(Annexure-III) .PDF
4. Technical supporting documents in support of all claims
made at Annexure-I (Annexure-IV) .PDF
Sl. No. TYPES Content
1. Financial Bid Price bid should be submitted in Excel format. .xlsx
Bid Submission
Online Bid Submission:
The Online bids (complete in all respect) must be uploaded online in two Envelops as explained below:-

IITJ/CPWD -6 FOR e-TENDERING AND TERM & CONDITIONS
Percentage rate tenders are invited on behalf of Director from contractors/firms engaged in the field of Civil work
in appropriate category for the work as per tender notice.
1. The enlistment of the contractors should be valid on the last date of submission of tenders. In case the last date 
 of submission of tender is extended, the enlistment of contractor should be valid on the original date of 
 submission of tenders.
1.1 
The work is estimated to cost as per tender notice This estimate, however, is given merely as a rough guide.
1.2 
Details of criteria for eligibility As Indicated in “INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS FOR 
CONTRACTORS FOR e-TENDERING FORMING PART OF NIT AND TO BE POSTED ON WEBSITE”
1.3 
To become eligible for issue of tender, the tenderer shall have to furnish an affidavit as mentioned below:-
“I/We undertake and confirm that eligible similar works(s) has/have not been got executed through 
another contractor on back to back basis. Further that, if such a violation comes to the notice of 
Department, then I/we shall be debarred for tendering in IIT Jodhpur in future forever. Also, if such a 
violation comes to the notice of Department before date of start of work, the Engineer-in-Charge shall be 
free to forfeit the entire amount of Earnest Money Deposit/Performance Guarantee.” (Scanned copy to be 
uploaded at the time of submission of bid)
(i) Affidavit shall be purchased /notorised on or after NIT published date but on or before last date of
submission of NIT.
(ii) Affidavit must have “NIT/tender reference number” and “Name of work” and shall be used once for each
fresh tender.
(iii) No back dated affidavit shall be entertained and non compliance of point (i) & (ii) shall lead to rejection of
the tender.
2. 
Agreement shall be drawn with the successful bidders on prescribed Form No. IITJ/CPWD form No. 8(or 
other Standard Form as mentioned) which is available as a Govt. of India Publication. Bidders shall quote his 
rates as per various terms and conditions of the said form which will form part of the agreement.
3. 
The time allowed for carrying out the work will be as per tender notice from the date of start as defined in 
schedule ‘F’ or from the first date of handing over of the site, whichever is later, in accordance with the 
phasing, if any, indicated in the tender documents.
4. 
The site for the work is available.
5. 
The bid document consisting of plans, specifications, the schedule of quantities of various types of items to be 
executed and the set of terms and conditions of the contract to be complied with and other necessary 
documents except Standard General Conditions of Contract Form can be seen from the web Site 
http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app or iitj.ac.in or e-procure.gov free of cost.
6. 
After submission of the bid the contractor can re-submit revised bid any number of times but before last time 
and date of submission of tender as notified.

7. 
While submitting the revised bid, contractor can revise the rate of one or more item(s) any number of times 
(he need not re-enter rate of all the items) but before last time and date of submission of tender as notified.
8. 
If it is desired to submit revised financial bid then it shall be mandatory to submit revised financial bid. If not 
submitted then the tender submitted earlier shall become invalid.
9. 
Earnest Money in the form of Demand Draft or Pay order or Banker`s Cheque or Deposit at Call Receipt 
(drawn in favour of Director IIT Jodhpur,) as specified of any Scheduled/ Nationalized Bank and shall be 
scanned & uploaded to the e-tendering website within the period of tender submission or through RTGS/ 
NEFT with UTR details and original should be deposited by lowest bidder within a week after the opening of 
financial bid in office of Executive Engineer , Office of Infrastructure Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
A part of earnest money is acceptable in the form of bank guarantee also. In such case, 50% of earnest money 
or Rs. 20 lakh, whichever is less, will have to be deposited in shape prescribed above, and balance in shape of 
Bank Guarantee of any scheduled bank which is to be scanned and uploaded by the intending bidders. 
Interested contractor who wish to participate in the bid has also to make following payments in the form of 
Demand Draft/Pay order or Banker’s Cheque of any Scheduled Bank and to be scanned and uploaded to the 
e-Tendering website within the period of bid submission: http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app.
10. 
 The bid submitted shall become invalid if:
(i) 
The bidders are found not eligible.
(ii) 
The bidders do not upload all the documents (including GST registration/ other documents as per Tender 
Notice) as stipulated in the bid document.
(iii) 
If any discrepancy is noticed between the documents as uploaded at the time of submission of bid and hard 
copies as submitted physically in the office of tender opening authority.
(iv) 
The lowest bidder does not deposit physical EMD Declaration Form within a week of opening of tender.
11. 
The time & date of submission & opening of financial bid of contractors qualifying the criteria as per Tender 
Notice shall be communicated to them at a later date.
12. 
The contractor whose bid is accepted, will be required to furnish performance guarantee of 5% (Five Percent) 
of the tendered and accepted of the bided amount within the period specified in Schedule F. This period can 
be further extended by the Engineer in-Charge up to a maximum period as specified in schedule 'F' on written 
request of the contractor stating the reason for delays in procuring the Performance Guarantee, to the 
satisfaction of the Engineer-in-Charge. This Guarantee shall be in the form of Insurance Surety Bonds, 
Account Payee Demand Draft, Fixed Deposit Receipt or Bank Guarantee from any of the Commercial Banks. 
In case a fixed deposit receipt of any Bank is furnished by the contractor to the Government as part of the 
performance guarantee and the Bank is unable to make payment against the said fixed deposit receipt, the 
loss caused thereby shall fall on the contractor and the contractor shall forthwith on demand furnish 
additional security to the Government to make good the deficit. In case the contractor fails to deposit the said 
performance guarantee within the period as indicated in Schedule ‘F’ including the extended period if any, 
the Earnest Money deposited by the contractor shall be forfeited automatically without any notice to the 
contractor.
13. 
Intending Bidders are advised to inspect and examine the site and its surroundings and satisfy themselves 
before submitting their tenders as to the nature of the ground and sub-soil (so far as is practicable), the form 
and nature of the site, the means of access to the site, the accommodation they may require and in general 
shall themselves obtain all necessary information as to risks, contingencies and other circumstances which 
may influence or affect their tender. A tenderer shall be deemed to have full knowledge of the site whether he 
inspects it or not and no extra charge consequent on any misunderstanding or otherwise shall be allowed. The 
tenderer shall be responsible for arranging and maintaining at his own cost all materials, tools & plants, 
water, electricity access, facilities for workers and all other services required for executing the work unless 
otherwise specifically provided for in the contract documents. Submission of a tender by a tenderer implies 
that he has read this notice and all other contract documents and has made himself aware of the scope and

specifications of the work to be done and of conditions and rates at which stores, tools and plant, etc. will be 
issued to him by the Government and local conditions and other factors having a bearing on the execution of 
the work.
14. 
The competent authority on behalf of the Director does not bind itself to accept the lowest or any other tender 
and reserves to itself the authority to reject any or all the tenders received without the assignment of any 
reason. All tenders in which any of the prescribed condition is not fulfilled or any condition including that of 
conditional rebate is put forth by the tenderer shall be summarily rejected.
15. 
Canvassing whether directly or indirectly, in connection with tenderers is strictly prohibited and the tenders 
submitted by the contractors who resort to canvassing will be liable to rejection.
16. 
The competent authority on behalf of Director reserves to himself the right of accepting the whole or any part 
of the tender and the tenderer shall be bound to perform the same at the rate quoted.
17. 
The contractor shall not be permitted to tender for works in the IIT Jodhpur responsible for award and 
execution of contracts, in which his near relative is posted a Divisional Accountant or as an officer in any 
capacity between the grades of Dean of Infrastructure Planning and Junior Engineer (both inclusive). He shall 
also intimate the names of persons who are working with him in any capacity or are subsequently employed 
by him and who are near relatives to any employee in the office of Infrastructure Engineering ,IIT Jodhpur. 
Any breach of this condition by the contractor would render him liable to be removed from the approved list 
of contractors of this Department.
18. 
No Engineer of gazetted rank or other Gazetted Officer employed in Engineering or Administrative duties in 
an Engineering Department of the Government of India is allowed to work as a contractor for a period of one 
year after his retirement from Government service, without the previous permission of the Government of 
India in writing. This contract is liable to be cancelled if either the contractor or any of his employees is found 
any time to be such a person who had not obtained the permission of the Government of India as afore said 
before submission of the tender or engagement in the contractor’s service.
19. 
The tender for the works shall remain open for acceptance for a period of seventy five (75) days from the date 
of opening of tenders.
a) If any tenderer withdraws his tender or makes any modification in the terms & conditions of the tender
which is not acceptable to the department within 7 days after last date of submission of bids, then the 
Government shall without prejudice to any other right or remedy, be at liberty to forfeit 50% of earnest 
money absolutely irrespective of letter of acceptance for the work is issued or not.
b) If any tenderer withdraws his tender or makes any modification in the terms & conditions of the tender
which is not acceptable to the department after expiry of 7 days after last date of submission of bids, then 
the Government shall without prejudice to any other right or remedy, be at liberty to forfeit 100% of the 
earnest money absolutely irrespective of letter of acceptance for the work is issued or not.
c) If contractor fails to furnish the prescribed performance guarantee within the prescribed period, the earnest
money is absolutely forfeited to the President automatically without any notice.
d) In case of forfeiture of earnest money as prescribed in Para (a) and (b) above, the bidder shall not be allowed
to participate in the re-tendering process of the work.
20. 
This notice inviting Tender shall form a part of the contract document. The successful tenderer / contractor, 
on acceptance of his tender by the Accepting Authority shall within 15 days from the stipulated date of start 
of the work, sign the contract consisting of: -
a) The Notice Inviting Tender, all the documents including additional conditions, specifications and
drawings, if any, forming part of the tender as uploaded at the time of invitation of tender and the rates 
quoted online at the time of submission of bid and acceptance thereof together with any correspondence 
leading thereto.
b) Standard IITJ/CPWD Form – 7/8 or other Standard IITJ Form as mentioned.
21. 
In case any discrepancy is noticed between the documents as uploaded at the time of submission of the bid 
online and hard copies as submitted physically in the office of Engineer In-Charge, Office of Infrastructure 
Engineering, IIT Jodhpur then the bid submitted shall become invalid.
IIT Jodhpur

INTEGRATY PACT e-TENDERING I.I.T.J
Subject:- Dressing, Cleaning, Levelling and Fencing work for Hydrogen Valley Project at Pocket B in IIT
Sub Head:- Civil Work. 
 
Dear Sir,
It is here by declared that I.I.T. Jodhpur is committed to follow the principle of transparency, equity and
competitiveness in public procurement.
The subject Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) is an invitation to offer made on the condition that the Bidder
will sign the integrity Agreement, which is an integral part of tender/bid documents, failing which the tenderer 
/ bidder will stand disqualified from the tendering process and the bid of the bidder would be summarily 
rejected.
This declaration shall form part and parcel of the Integrity Agreement and signing of the same shall be
deemed as acceptance and signing of the Integrity Agreement on behalf of the I.I.T. Jodhpur.
Yours faithfully
Dean of Infrastructure Planning

Acceptance to execute integrity pact I.I.T.J
(To be signed by bidder and upload the scanned copy)
To, 
Dean of Infrastructure Planning, 
IIT Jodhpur, NH 65 Nagour Road Karwar 
Jodhpur Rajasthan.
Subject: - 
Submission of Bid for the of “Dressing, Cleaning, Levelling and Fencing work for 
Hydrogen Valley Project at Pocket B in IIT Jodhpur.”
Sub Head: - 
Civil Work
Dear Sir,
I/We acknowledge that I.I.T Jodhpur is committed to follow the principles thereof as enumerated
in the Integrity Agreement enclosed with the tender/bid document.
I/We agree that the Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) is an invitation to offer made on the condition
that I/We will sign the enclosed integrity Agreement, which is an integral part of tender / bid documents, 
failing which I/We will stand disqualified from the tendering process. I/We acknowledge that THE 
MAKING OF THE BID SHALL BE REGARDED AS AN UNCONDITIONAL AND ABSOLUTE 
ACCEPTANCE of this condition of the NIT.
I/We confirm acceptance and compliance with the Integrity Agreement in letter and spirit and
further agree that execution of the said Integrity Agreement shall be separate and distinct from the main 
contract, which will come into existence when tender/bid is finally accepted by I.I.T.Jodhpur. I/We 
acknowledge and accept the duration of the Integrity Agreement, which shall be in the line with Article 1 of 
the enclosed Integrity Agreement.
I/We acknowledge that in the event of my/our failure to sign and accept the Integrity Agreement,
while submitting the tender/bid, I.I.T. Jodhpur shall have unqualified, absolute and unfettered right to 
disqualify the tender / bidder and reject the tender/bid is accordance with terms and conditions of the 
tender/bid.
Yours faithfully
(Duly authorized signatory of the Bidder)

INTEGRATY PACT e-TENDERING I.I.T.J
To be signed by the bidder and same signatory competent / authorized to
sign the relevant contract on behalf of I.I.T.Jodhpur.
INTEGRITY AGREEMENT
This Integrity Agreement is made at ............... on this ............. day of.............. 20......
BETWEEN
The Director, I.I.T. Jodhpur represented through Dean of Infrastructure Planning IIT Jodhpur. 
.................................................................................., (Hereinafter referred as the
(Address of Division)
‘Principal/Owner’, which expression shall unless repugnant to the meaning or context hereof include its 
successors and permitted assigns)
AND
(Name and Address of the Individual/firm/Company)
through ....................................................................... (Hereinafter referred to as the
(Details of duly authorized signatory)
“Bidder/Contractor” and which expression shall unless repugnant to the meaning or context hereof include its 
successors and permitted assigns) 
 
Preamble 
 
WHEREAS the Principal / Owner has floated the Tender (NIT No. ................................) (Hereinafter referred to as 
“Tender/Bid”) 
and 
intends 
to 
award, 
under 
laid 
down 
organizational 
procedure, 
contract 
for
(Name of work)
hereinafter referred to as the “Contract”. 
 
AND WHEREAS the Principal/Owner values full compliance with all relevant laws of the land, rules, regulations, 
economic use of resources and of fairness/transparency in its relation with its Bidder(s) and Contractor(s).AND 
WHEREAS to meet the purpose aforesaid both the parties have agreed to enter into this Integrity Agreement 
(hereinafter referred to as “Integrity Pact” or “Pact”), the terms and conditions of which shall also be read as 
integral part and parcel of the Tender/Bid documents and Contract between the parties.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of mutual covenants contained in this Pact, the parties hereby agree as follows and 
this Pact witnesses as under:
Article 1: Commitment of the Principal/Owner
1) 
The Principal/Owner commits itself to take all measures necessary to prevent corruption and to observe 
the following principles:
(a) 
No employee of the Principal/Owner, personally or through any of his/her family members, will 
in connection with the Tender, or the execution of the Contract, demand, take a promise for or 
accept, for self or third person, any material or immaterial benefit which the person is not legally 
entitled to.
(b) 
The Principal/Owner will, during the Tender process, treat all Bidder(s) with equity and reason. 
The Principal/Owner will, in particular, before and during the Tender process, provide to all 
Bidder(s) the same information and will not provide to any Bidder(s) confidential / additional 
information through which the Bidder(s) could obtain an advantage in relation to the Tender 
process or the Contract execution.
(c) 
The Principal/Owner shall esndeavor to exclude from the Tender process any person, whose 
conduct in the past has been of biased nature.
2) 
If the Principal/Owner obtains information on the conduct of any of its employees which is a criminal 
offence under the Indian Penal code (IPC)/Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (PC Act) or is in violation 
of the principles herein mentioned or if there be a substantive suspicion in this regard, the 
Principal/Owner will inform the Chief Vigilance Officer and in addition can also initiate disciplinary 
actions as per its internal laid down policies and procedures.
Article 2: Commitment of the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s)
1) 
It is required that each Bidder/Contractor (including their respective officers, employees and agents) 
adhere to the highest ethical standards, and report to the Government / Department all suspected acts 
of fraud or corruption or Coercion or Collusion of which it has knowledge or becomes aware, during 
the tendering process and throughout the negotiation or award of a contract.
2) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) commits himself to take all measures necessary to prevent corruption.
He commits himself to observe the following principles during his participation in the Tender 
process and during the Contract execution:
a) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other person or firm, offer, promise or 
give to any of the Principal/Owner’s employees involved in the Tender process or execution of the 
Contract or to any third person any material or other benefit which he/she is not legally entitled to, 
in order to obtain in exchange any advantage of any kind whatsoever during the Tender process or 
during the execution of the Contract.
b) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not enter with other Bidder(s) into any undisclosed agreement or 
understanding, whether formal or informal. This applies in particular to prices, specifications, 
certifications, subsidiary contracts, submission or non-submission of bids or any other actions to 
restrict competitiveness or to cartelize in the bidding process.
c) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not commit any offence under the relevant IPC/PC Act. Further

the Bidder(s)/Contract(s) will not use improperly, (for the purpose of competition or personal gain), 
or pass on to others, any information or documents provided by the Principal/Owner as part of the 
business relationship, regarding plans, technical proposals and business details, including 
information contained or transmitted electronically.
d) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) of foreign origin shall disclose the names and addresses of 
agents/representatives in India, if any. Similarly Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) of Indian Nationality shall 
disclose names and addresses of foreign agents/representatives, if any. Either the Indian agent on 
behalf of the foreign principal or the foreign principal directly could bid in a tender but not both. 
Further, in cases where an agent participate in a tender on behalf of one manufacturer, he shall not 
be allowed to quote on behalf of another manufacturer along with the first manufacturer in a 
subsequent/parallel tender for the same item.
e) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will, when presenting his bid, disclose any and all payments he has 
made, is committed to or intends to make to agents, brokers or any other intermediaries in 
connection with the award of the Contract.
3) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not instigate third persons to commit offences outlined above or be an 
accessory to such offences.
4) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other person or firm indulge in 
fraudulent practice means a willful misrepresentation or omission of facts or submission of 
fake/forged documents in order to induce public official to act in reliance thereof, with the purpose 
of obtaining unjust advantage by or causing damage to justified interest of others and/or to 
influence the procurement process to the detriment of the Government interests.
5) 
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other person or firm use Coercive 
Practices (means the act of obtaining something, compelling an action or influencing a decision through 
intimidation, threat or the use of force directly or indirectly, where potential or actual injury may befall 
upon a person, his/ her reputation or property to influence their participation in the tendering process).
Article 3: Consequences of Breach 
Without prejudice to any rights that may be available to the Principal/Owner under law or the Contract or 
its established policies and laid down procedures, the Principal/Owner shall have the following rights in 
case of breach of this Integrity Pact by the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) and the Bidder/ Contractor accepts and 
undertakes to respect and uphold the Principal/Owner’s absolute right:
1) If the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s), either before award or during execution of Contract has committed a
transgression through a violation of Article 2 above or in any other form, such as to put his reliability or 
credibility in question, the Principal/Owner after giving 14 days’ notice to the contractor shall have 
powers to disqualify the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) from the Tender process or terminate/determine the 
Contract, if already executed or exclude the Bidder/Contractor from future contract award processes. The 
imposition and duration of the exclusion will be determined by the severity of transgression and 
determined by the Principal/Owner. Such exclusion may be forever or for a limited period as decided 
by the Principal/Owner.
2) Forfeiture of EMD/Performance Guarantee/Security Deposit: If the Principal/Owner has disqualified the
Bidder(s) from the Tender process prior to the award of the Contract or terminated/determined the 
Contract or has accrued the right to terminate/determine the Contract according to Article 3(1), the 
Principal/Owner apart from exercising any legal rights that may have accrued to the Principal/Owner, 
may in its considered opinion forfeit the entire amount of Earnest Money Deposit, Performance Guarantee 
and Security Deposit of the Bidder/Contractor.
3) Criminal Liability: If the Principal/Owner obtains knowledge of conduct of a Bidder or Contractor, or of
an employee or a representative or an associate of a Bidder or Contractor which constitutes corruption

within the meaning of IPC Act, or if the Principal/Owner has substantive suspicion in this regard, the 
Principal/Owner will inform the same to law enforcing agencies for further investigation.
Article 4: Previous Transgression
1) The Bidder declares that no previous transgressions occurred in the last 5 years with any other Company
in any country confirming to the anticorruption approach or with Central Government or State 
Government or any other Central/State Public Sector Enterprises in India that could justify his exclusion 
from the Tender process.
2) If the Bidder makes incorrect statement on this subject, he can be disqualified from the Tender process or
action can be taken for banning of business dealings/ holiday listing of the Bidder/Contractor as deemed 
fit by the Principal/ Owner.
3) If the Bidder/Contractor can prove that he has resorted / recouped the damage caused by him and has
installed a suitable corruption prevention system, the Principal/Owner may, at its own discretion, revoke 
the exclusion prematurely.
Article 5: Equal Treatment of all Bidders/Contractors/Subcontractors
C) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) undertake(s) to demand from all subcontractors a commitment in conformity
with this Integrity Pact. The Bidder/Contractor shall be responsible for any violation(s) of the principles 
laid down in this agreement/Pact by any of its Sub-contractors/sub-vendors.
2) The Principal/Owner will enter into Pacts on identical terms as this one with all Bidders and Contractors. 
 
3) The Principal/Owner will disqualify Bidders, who do not submit, the duly signed Pact between the
Principal/Owner and the bidder, along with the Tender or violate its provisions at any stage of the Tender 
process, from the Tender process.
Article 6- Duration of the Pact
This Pact begins when both the parties have legally signed it. It expires for the Contractor/Vendor 09 Months 
after the completion of work under the contract or till the continuation of defect liability period, whichever is 
more and for all other bidders, till the Contract has been awarded.
If any claim is made/lodged during the time, the same shall be binding and continue to be valid despite the 
lapse of this Pacts as specified above, unless it is discharged/determined by the Competent Authority, I.I.T. 
Jodhpur.
Article 7- Other Provisions
C) This Pact is subject to Indian Law, place of performance and jurisdiction is the Headquarters of the
Division of the Principal/Owner, who has floated the Tender.
2) 
 Changes and supplements need to be made in writing. Side agreements have not been made.
3) 
If the Contractor is a partnership or a consortium, this Pact must be signed by all the partners or by one 
or more partner holding power of attorney signed by all partners and consortium members. In case of 
a Company, the Pact must be signed by a representative duly authorized by board resolution.
4) Should one or several provisions of this Pact turn out to be invalid; the remainder of this Pact remains
valid. In this case, the parties will strive to come to an agreement to their original intensions.

5) It is agreed term and condition that any dispute or difference arising between the parties with regard to
the terms of this Integrity Agreement / Pact, any action taken by the Owner/Principal in accordance with 
this Integrity Agreement/ Pact or interpretation thereof shall not be subject to arbitration.
Article 8- LEGAL AND PRIOR RIGHTS 
 
All rights and remedies of the parties hereto shall be in addition to all the other legal rights and remedies 
belonging to such parties under the Contract and/or law and the same shall be deemed to be cumulative 
and not alternative to such legal rights and remedies aforesaid. For the sake of brevity, both the Parties 
agree that this Integrity Pact will have precedence over the Tender/Contact documents with regard any 
of the provisions covered under this Integrity Pact. 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have signed and executed this Integrity Pact at the place and date 
first above mentioned in the presence of following witnesses: 
 
 
............................................................... 
(For and on behalf of Principal/Owner) 
 
................................................................. 
(For and on behalf of Bidder/Contractor) 
 
WITNESSES:
(signature, name and address)
(signature, name and address)
Dated :

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Jodhpur
Percentage Rate Tender/Item Rate Tender & Contract for Works
Tender for the work of: Dressing, Cleaning, Levelling and Fencing work for Hydrogen Valley Project at Pocket B 
in IIT Jodhpur.
Sub Head: - Civil Work.
(C) To be submitted by as per tender notice ………………………………… to
(C) To be opened in presence of bidders who may be present at as per tender notice …………………
Issued to ……………………………………………………………………………………………..
Signature of officer issuing the documents ………………..……………………………………
Designation .…………………………………………………….……………………………………
Date of Issue ……………………………………….
TENDER
I/We have read and examined the notice inviting tender, schedule, A, B, C, D, E & F Specifications 
applicable, Drawings & Designs, General Rules and Directions, Conditions of Contract, clauses of 
contract, Special conditions, Schedule of Rate & other documents and Rules referred to in the 
conditions of contract and all other contents in the tender document for the work. 
 
I/We hereby tender for the execution of the work specified for the The Director, I.I.T. Jodhpur, within 
the time specified in Schedule ‘F’ viz., schedule of quantities and in accordance in all respect with the 
specifications, designs, drawing and instructions in writing referred to in Rule-1 of General Rules and 
Directions and in Clause 11 of the Conditions of contract and with such materials as are provided for, 
by, and in respect of accordance with, such conditions so far as applicable. 
 
We agree to keep the tender open for seventy five (75) days from the date of opening of bid.
A sum of as per tender notice is hereby forwarded in Banker Cheque or Demand Draft or Fixed Deposit 
receipt of a schedule bank drawn in favour of IIT Jodhpur earnest money. If I/We, fail to furnish the 
prescribed performance guarantee within prescribed period. I/We agree that the said The Director, I.I.T. 
Jodhpur or his successors, in office shall without prejudice to any other right or remedy, be at liberty to forfeit 
the said earnest money absolutely. Further, if I/We fail to commence work as specified, I/We agree that The 
Director, I.I.T. Jodhpur or the successors in office shall without prejudice to any other right or remedy 
available in law, be at liberty to forfeit the said earnest money and the performance guarantee absolutely, 
otherwise the said earnest money shall be retained by him towards security deposit to execute all the works 
referred to in the tender documents upon the terms and conditions contained or referred to those in excess of 
that limit at the rates to be determined in accordance with the provision contained in Clause 12.2 and 12.3 of 
the tender form. Further, I/We agree that in case of forfeiture of Earnest Money & Performance Guarantee as 
aforesaid. I/We shall be debarred for participation in the re-tendering process of the work.

I/We undertake and confirm that eligible similar work(s) has/have not been got executed through another 
contractor on back to back basis. Further that, if such a violation comes to the notice of Department, then I/We 
shall be debarred for tendering in I.I.T. Jodhpur in future forever. Also, if such a violation comes to the notice 
of Department before date of start of work, the Engineer-in-Charge shall be free to forfeit the entire amount of 
Earnest Money Deposit/Performance Guarantee.
I/We hereby declare that I/We shall treat the tender documents drawings and other records connected with the 
work as secret/confidential documents and shall not communicate information/derived there from to any person 
other than a person to whom I/We am/are authorized to communicate the same or use the information in any 
manner prejudicial to the safety of the State.
Signature of Contractor
Postal Address

ACCEPTANCE
The above tender (as modified by you as provided in the letters mentioned hereunder) is accepted by
me for an on behalf of The Director, I.I.T. Jodhpur for a sum of
The letters referred to below shall form part of this contract agreement:-
For & on behalf of Director, IIT Jodhpur
Signature …………………………………..
Dated: Designation ………………………….

PROFORMA OF SCHEDULES
3) I.I.T.J
S.No. Description of item Quantity Rates in figures &
words at which the
material will be
charged to the
Contractor Place of issue
S.No. Description Hire charges per day Place of Issue
PROFORMA OF SCHEDULES
SCHEDULE ‘A’
Schedule of quantities (enclosed)
SCHEDULE 'B'
Schedule of materials to be issued to the contractor.
SCHEDULE 'C'
Tools and plants to be hired to the contractor
SCHEDULE ‘D’
Extra schedule for specific requirements/document for the work, if any.

Officer inviting tender Dean of Infrastructure Planning , IIT Jodhpur
Maximum percentage for quantity of
items of work to be executed beyond
which rates are to be determined in
accordance with Clauses 12.2 & 12.3 100%
Engineer-in-charge Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur
Accepting Authority Deputy Director, IIT Jodhpur
Percentage on cost of materials and
labor to cover all overhead & profits 15%
Standard schedule of Rates DSR 2023(Civil) with correction slips up to last date of
submission of bid.
Department Office of Infrastructure Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
Standard IITJ contract Form GCC 2023 construction work, Form-7/8 for CPWD
construction works as amended up to last date of
submission of bid.
SCHEDULE ‘E’
Reference to General Conditions of contract: General Conditions of contract for Central PWD/IITJ Construction 
works 2023: GCC 2023, Form-7/8 for CPWD works as amended upto last date of submission of bid
Name of work: - Dressing, Cleaning, Levelling and Fencing work for Hydrogen Valley Project at Pocket B 
in IIT Jodhpur.
Sub Head: - Civil Work
(i) Estimated cost of work 
 
: As per Tender Notice
(ii) Earnest Money 
 
: As per Tender Notice
(iii) Performance Guarantee 
: 5% of tendered value
(iv) Security Deposit 
 
 
: 2.5% of the gross amount of each running and final bill till the sum
deducted will amount to security deposit of 2.5% of the tendered amount of the work.
SCHEDULE 'F'
Clause -1
(i) 
Time 
allowed 
for 
submission 
of
Performance 
guarantee, 
Programme
Chart 
(Time 
and 
Progress) 
and
applicable labour licenses, registration 
with EPFO, ESIC and BOCW Welfare 
Board including Provident Fund Code 
No. or proof of applying thereof from
07 Days

date of issue of letter of acceptance.
(ii) 
Maximum allowable extension with late 
fee @ 0.1% per day of performance 
guarantee amount beyond the period 
provided in (i) above
07 Days
Clause -2
Authority for fixing compensation for 
not attending the complaint or non-
deployment of labour as per time limit 
mentioned in Special Condition of NIT
Dean- Infrastructure, IIT Jodhpur or equivalent officer 
in-charge of work.
Clause 2A
Whether clause 2A is applicable 
Not applicable
Clause - 5
Number of days from the date of issue 
of letter of acceptance for reckoning 
date of start of work
10 Days
Time allowed for execution of work: 
01 Months
Authority to decide:
(i) 
Extension of time 
 
Dean of Infrastructure Planning.
Clause -6 
Computerized Measure Book (CMB) / Electronic
Measurement Book (EMB)
Mode of measurement: 
Computerized Measure Book (CMB)
Gross work to be done together with net 
payment /adjustment of advances for 
material collected, if any, since the last 
such payment for being eligible to interim 
payment
Clause - 10A
Clause - 10B(i)
Whether Clause 10 B (i) shall be 
applicable

Whether Clause 10 B (ii) shall be 
applicable
Clause 10C
Component of labour expressed as 
percent of value of work
Clause 10CA 
Not Applicable
Clause 10CC escalation clause 
Not applicable
Schedule of component of other 
Materials, Labour, POL etc. for price 
escalation.
Component of civil (except materials 
covered under expressed as percent of 
total value of work.-
Component of Labour -
expressed as percent of total value of 
work.
Component of P.O.L. –
expressed as percent of total value of 
work.
Clause 11
Specifications to be followed 
for execution of work
CPWD specifications 2019 Vol-1&2 with upto date 
correction slips & manufacturers specifications & NIT
Clause 12
As per GCC 2023 Construction work
Clause - 12.2
As per GCC 2023 Construction work
Clause - 12.3
As per GCC 2023 Construction work
Clause - 16
Competent Authority for deciding 
reduced rates
Dean of Infrastructure Planning
Clause - 17
Defect Liability Period
12 Months after the issue of the certificate final or 
otherwise, of completion of work, or till the final 
bill has been prepared and passed whichever is 
 later. 
Note : - Security deposit will be refunded after the 
expiry of the defect liability period

(i) (a) Schedule/statement for determining theoretical quantity of
cement & bitumen on the basis of Delhi Schedule of Rates DSR 2023 with correction slips issued upto
last date of submission of bid
(ii) Variations permissible on theoretical quantities
(i) for works estimated cost put to tender not more than Rs.
25 Lakhs 3 % plus/minus
(ii) For works with estimated cost put to tender more than
Rs. 25 Lakhs 2 % plus/minus
(b) Bitumen for all works 2.5% plus only & nil on minus side
(c) Steel reinforcement and structural steel section for each
diameter, section and category 2% plus/minus
(d) All other materials Nil
Clause - 18
List of mandatory machinery, tools & 
plants to be deployed by the contractor 
at site:
As per the requirement and direction of Engineer 
In-Charge
Clause 25
Constitution of Dispute Redressal 
Committee (DRC)
To be nominated by Director IIT Jodhpur
Clause 32
As per ANNEXURE – 20 of CPWD SOP and GCC 2023 
Construction work

BANK GUARANTEE BOND I.I.T.J BANK GUARANTEE BOND I.I.T.J
Form of Earnest Money Deposit
Bank Guarantee Bond
WHEREAS, contractor 
..... 
………………………..(Name of contractor) (hereinafter called “the
contractor”) has submitted his tender dated 
(date) 
for 
the 
work 
of(name 
of 
work)
(hereinafter called “the Tender”) 
 
KNOW ALL PEOPLE by these presents that we 
......................... …..(name of bank) having our
registered office at ............................................................................... (hereinafter called “the Bank”) 
are bound unto ..................................................................................... ................................................... 
(Name and division of Engineer) (hereinafter called “the Engineer-in-Charge”) in the sum of Rs. 
......................... (Rs. In words .................................................) for which payment well and truly to be 
made to the said Engineer-in-Charge the Bank binds itself, his successors and assigns by these 
presents. 
 
SEALED with the Common Seal of the said Bank this .................day of ................. 20.... 
THE CONDITIONS of this obligation are:
(1) If after tender opening the Contractor withdraws, his tender during the period of validity of tender
(including extended validity of tender) specified in the Form of Tender;
(2) If the contractor having been notified of the acceptance of his tender by the Engineer-in-Charge:
(C) fails or refuses to execute the Form of Agreement in accordance with the Instructions to
contractor, if required;
OR
(C) fails or refuses to furnish the Performance Guarantee, in accordance with the provisions of
tender document and Instructions to contractor,
OR
(C) Ifails or refuses to start the work, in accordance with the provisions of the contract and
Instructions to contractor,
OR
(d) fails or refuses to submit fresh Bank Guarantee of an equal amount of this Bank Guarantee, against
Security Deposit after award of contract. 
We undertake to pay to the Engineer-in-Charge either up to the above amount or part thereof 
upon receipt of his first written demand, without the Engineer-in-Charge having to substantiates 
his demand, provided that in his demand the Engineer-in-Charge will note that the amount 
claimed by his is due to him owing to the occurrence of one or any of the above conditions, 
specifying the occurred condition or conditions. 
 
This Guarantee will remain in force up to and including the date* ............. after the deadline for 
submission of tender as such deadline is stated in the Instructions to contractor or as it may be 
extended by the Engineer-in-Charge, notice of which extension(s) to the Bank is hereby waived. 
Any demand in respect of this Guarantee should reach the Bank not later than the above date. 
 
DATE .............
SIGNATURE OF THE BANK
WITNESS ................SEAL
(SIGNATURE, NAME AND ADDRESS)
*Date to be worked out on the basis of validity period of 6 months from last date of receipt of tender.

SPECIAL CODITIONS OF CONTRACT
1. Agency/ Firm shall abide by all laws of the land including, labour laws, Companies Act, Tax deduction
liabilities, welfare measures of its employees and all other statutory obligations that enjoin in such cases 
and are not enumerated and defined herein, through any such onus shall be the exclusive responsibility of 
the Agency/ Firm, and it shall not involve the Institute in any way whatsoever.
2. The Financial Bid must be submitted in BOQ/Prize Bid only. 
3. Institute reserves the right to require the Agency/ Firm to remove any person deployed by the company,
without assigning any reasons/notice. This will be without prejudice to the right of the Agency/ Firm to 
remove any of his own employees deployed in the Institute.
4. In the case of any dereliction of duty, negligence, an unintended or intended damage caused by the
Agency/ Firm or its staff pertaining to this agreement, or otherwise, any harm is done to the Institute, the 
Agency/ Firm shall make good the loss or pay the compensation, refund expenditure on legal/judicial 
proceedings as well as pay such penalty which the party of the first part may deem fit.
5. It would be responsibility of Agency/ Firm to arrange all permission/ approvals from all local
bodies/statutory bodies & nothing extra shall be paid on account of this by the Institute.
6. The Agency/ Firm shall be responsible for all injury and accident to persons employed by him while on
duty. It is desirable that all employees are covered under an insurance cover.
7. All employees of the Agency/ Firm shall be issued Identity Cards bearing their photographs. Photographs
for identity cards shall be provided by the Agency/ Firm/Agency/ Firm at their own cost. The ID Cards 
will be issued by the Agency/ Firm. These will be countersigned by the IIT Jodhpur Security Officer/ 
Engineer of Office of Infrastructure.
8. The Agency/ Firm shall be responsible for the good conduct and behavior of its employees. If any
employee of the Agency/ Firm is found misbehaving with the supervisory staff or other staff members of 
the Institute the Agency/ Firm shall terminate the services of such employees forthwith at their own risk 
and responsibility. The Agency/ Firm shall issue necessary Instructions to its employees to act upon the 
instructions given by the supervisory staff of the Institute.
9. The contractor shall have registration with Employee’s Provident Fund commissioner and Employee’s
state Insurance Corporation for safe guarding interest of his workmen. He shall obtain all other necessary 
approvals from statutory bodies as per law in vogue.
10. The dismantled material which has scrap valve is needed to be handed over to Institute.
11. In the event of any loss being occurred to the Institute on account of the negligence of the duty by the
Agency/ Firm/ Agency/ Firm’s employees, the Agency/ Firm shall make good the loss sustained to the 
Institute either by replacement or on payment of the adequate compensation as per decision of Engineer-
in-charge.
12. The Agency/ Firm shall not appoint sub-Agency/ Firm to carry out any obligation under the contract. 
13. The Agency/ Firm will take day to day instructions from the supervisory staff of the institute and shall
maintain diary for the same.
14. The labours engaged by agency shall not be below age 18 years and no worker will be allowed to stay in
the Institute campus.
15. The Agency/ Firm shall maintain an Inspection Book as prescribed which will be made available to
supervisory staff of the Institute. Fault / Observation record there on shall be attended to immediately.
16. Any dispute arising out of and in relation to this agreement shall be referred to the arbitration by sole
arbitrator to be appointed by Director of the Institute. The arbitration would be conducted and governed 
by and under the provisions of Arbitration Act, 1996. Any legal dispute will be subject to jurisdiction of

Jodhpur Courts only and no other court shall have the jurisdiction refer IITJ/CPWD GCC form 7/8 in 
regard.
17. A Separate challan must be submitted for the payments of ESI & EPF of its employees deployed only at the
Institute for the specific work agreement.
18. IIT Jodhpur is a ‘No SMOKING ZONE’ The Agency/ Firm should ensure that his employees DO NOT
SMOKE while working in the IIT Campus. They will also not indulge in drinking alcohol or any other 
intoxicants. They will not consume drugs and eat pan/ Khaini / tobacco etc. they will not play cards or 
indulge in gambling on campus.
19. No labour hut shall be allowed to be constructed and no labour shall be allowed to stay in IIT Jodhpur
campus and nothing shall be paid on this account.
20. For ESI/EPF shall be reimbursed, if applicable, only on the production of documentary proof of payment
to the concerned authorities/ departments for the particular project.
21. The Agency/ Firm shall keep himself fully informed of all acts and laws of the Central and State
Government, all orders, decrees of statutory bodies, tribunals having any jurisdiction or authority, which 
in any manner may affect their engaged or employed and anything related to carry out the work. All the 
rules & regulations & byelaws lay down by the local bodies and any other statutory bodies shall be 
adhered to, by the Agency/ Firm, during the execution of work.
22. Agency/ Firm must employ adult and skilled personnel only. Employment of child labour shall lead to the
termination of the contract at the risk and cost of the Agency/ Firm. Agency/ Firm shall deploy/ engage 
reliable persons at client after proper character and police verification and impose any conditions as per 
prevailing contractual labour laws for such engagements, take disciplinary action or reward any person at 
work etc., at its sole costs, risks and responsibilities.
23. Agency/ Firm shall deal with and settle the matters related with unions and shall make sure that no labour
disputes / problems are referred to Client. It shall totally indemnify Client in this regard.
24. Agency/ Firm should at all times indemnify Client against all claims, damages or compensation under the
provisions of payment of wages Act, 1936; Minimum Wages Act, 1948; Employer’s Liability Act, 1938 ; the 
workmen compensation Act, 1932 ; Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ; Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 ; or any 
modification thereof or any other law relating thereto and rules made hereunder from time. Client will not 
own any responsibility in this regard.
25. Tenderer should not have conflict of interest. The tenderer found to have conflict interest shall be
26. No. Joint ventures are allowed. 
27. No Rebate on account of small scale industries or any other ground or on any other ground or documents
shall be granted in this SPC/ Tender
28. All statutory & mandatory deductions as per Government of India & Rajasthan State Government norms
shall be deducted from each running bill & final bill of agency/ firm.
29. GST shall be applicable in this contract. NIT and the rules of Govt. of India of as notified from time to time
shall be followed in items of GST. Presently, 18% GST has been considered in this tender.
30. No escalation clause i.e, clause 10CC of IITJ/CPWD GCC form 7/8 is applicable in this NIT/ Contract. 
31. Security deposit @2.5% will be deducted for entire gross work done including extension period if any,
from each installment however, earnest money deposit will be adjusted to security deposit.
32. 1% (one percent) cess towards labour welfare fund, income tax as applicable and other taxes/ Statutory
recoveries as applicable will be deducted from the bill of contractor.
33. Non Judicial stamp paper worth Rs. 100/- (Hundred Rupees only) will be submitted by contractor which
will have to be signed as token of acceptance.
34. No T & P would be supplied by the Institute and contractor will have to make his own arrangement.

35. The contractors are advised to get acquitted with the proposed work including specifications & its site and
additional conditions carefully before quoting. No claim of any sort shall be entertained or account of any 
site conditions and ignorance of specifications & additional conditions. The work shall be carried out as per 
the availability of site.
36. The work shall be carried out as per CPWD specifications for civil and electrical work with up – to date
correction slips unless otherwise specified in the nomenclature of individual item or in the specification, 
additional conditions where specifications are silent, the decision of Engineer-in-Charge shall be final and 
binding on contractor.
37. The rates quoted by the contractor shall be taken as net and nothing extra shall be paid on any account i.e
Royalty, Cartage, GST & stacking of material required at places etc. The rates for different items of work 
shall apply for Heights & Depths, Leads & Lifts unless otherwise specified in the agreement or specifications 
applicable in the agreement.
38. Any damage done by the contractor to any existing item / any part of the building during the course of
execution of work shall be made good by at his own cost.
39. Articles manufactured by the reputed firms and approved make list in tender. 
40. The sample of material required in the work brought at site shall be got approved from Engineer –in-Charge
before use in execution of work.
41. The sample of material required for Testing shall be provided at free of cost by the contractor. Testing
charges also be borne by the contractor. All other expenditure to be incurred for taking sample, conveyance, 
packing etc. shall be borne by the contractor.
42. The contractor shall submit a detailed program of work within 7 days of the date of award of work. The
Engineer – in- Charge can modify the program and the contractors have to work accordingly.
43. The contractor shall make his own arrangement for getting the permission with respect to trucks from the
Traffic Police.
44. No payment shall be made to contractor for any damage caused by the rain or any other natural causes what
so ever during the execution of work.
45. Some restrictions may be imposed by the security staff of IIT Jodhpur etc. on the working and or movement
of labour & material. No labour camp/ huts shall be allowed in IIT Jodhpur. The contractor shall make his 
own arrangement for labour huts outside the campus. However constructions of cement godown and 
Chowkidar’s hut in the Campus shall be permitted. The contractor shall be bound to follow all such 
restrictions/ instructions and nothing shall be payable on this account.
46. The contractor shall be fully responsible for the safe custody of the material issued or brought at site by him
for doing the work.
47. The Malba / Garbage generated at site due to construction activities shall be removed from the site
immediately & shall be disposed off by the contractor to the approved dumping site of Jodhpur Municipal 
Corporation and all statutory approvals from local bodies shall be a sole responsibility of contractor.
48. The contractor shall clean the site thoroughly of scaffolding materials, rubbish, equipment’s left out of his
work & dress the site around the building to the complete satisfaction of the Engineer-in-Charge before the 
work is treated as completed.
49. Income tax and other taxes as applicable shall be deducted from the bills of contractor. 
50. 1% labour cess or as applicable will be deducted from the bills of contractor. 
51. Water charges @ 1% and Electricity charges @ 0.5 % of gross work done shall be deducted from bills of
contractor if electricity and water provided by IIT Jodhpur for this work.
52. Agency has to take proper safety measures during the execution of work. 
53. IITJ/CPWD GCC form 7/8 shall form part of NIT and the bidder shall go through GCC before quoting rates
and the same shall be deemed to be accepted by bidder if he participates in the tender.
54. The contractor shall submit the program of execution of work as per clause 5 of IITJ/CPWD GCC form 7/8
of NIT including list of workers to be deployed by contractor for this work.

55. Contractor shall be responsible for keeping site free of any kind of mosquito breeding. If it is found that
breeding is taking place the entire responsibility shall be of contractor to bear challan etc. done by local 
bodies.
56. GST @ 18% has been considered in this work and agency has to quote the rates inclusive of GST.

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY: JODHPUR
SPECIAL TERMS & CONDITIONS
1. The work will be carried out as per CPWD specification. 
2. All taxes such Income Tax whether applicable or laid by the government after opening the tender shall be
borne by the Agency/ Firm & shall be deducted from the bills of Agency/ Firm.
3. Failure to comply any of the above clauses or due to unsatisfactory performance as observed by Engineer-in-
charge, the contract shall be terminated at any stage without assigning any reason thereof.
4. The Agency/ Firm shall be responsible for any injury or accident to the labour during execution of work and
claim shall be given by the Agency/ Firm.
5. Any damage caused to Institute property during execution of work shall be made good by the Agency/ Firm
on his own cost.
6. Final payment shall be released only after satisfactory completion of work. 
7. The Agency/ Firm shall clean the site thoroughly to the entire satisfaction of Engineer-in-charge. 
8. The Agency/ Firm / his supervisor will be bound to signature the site order book & carry out instructions
giving their in.
9. Final payment shall be released only after satisfactory completion of work. 
10. The rates quoted by the Agency/ Firm shall be taken as net and nothing extra shall be paid on any account
i.e. Royalty, Cartage, Sales Tax & stacking of material required at places etc.
11. The rates for different items of work shall apply for all Heights & Depths, Leads & Lifts unless otherwise
specified in the agreement or specifications applicable in the agreement. The Agency/ Firm must visit site 
(internal or external) area before quoting rates.
12. No labour camp/ huts of Agency/ Firm shall be allowed in IIT Campus. 
13. All the statutory obligations which is not covered in the bid document shall be reimbursed on actual basis
after submission of proof of payment.
14. 18% GST has been considered in this work. The quoted rates must be inclusive of 18% GST.

S.No. Material Manufacturer
1 Ordinary Portland
Cement/Pozzolona Portland
Cement WONDER, ACC, ULTRATECH, BIRLA, AMBUJA
2 White Portland Cement BIRLA WHITE, JK WHITE, ACC
3 Oil Bound Washable Distemper JONSON & NICHOLSON, BERGER PAINTS, ASIAN PAINT,
NEROLAC, ICI
4 Acrylic Distemper JONSON & NICHOLSON, BERGER PAINTS, ASIAN PAINT,
NEROLAC, AKZONOBEL
5 Premium Acrylic Emulsion Paints JONSON & NICHOLSON, BERGER PAINTS, ASIAN PAINT,
NEROLAC, AKZONOBEL
6 Cement Primer BERGER, ASIAN, ICI
7 Steel Primer AKZONOBEL, NEROLAC, ASIAN PAINTS
8 Wood Primer AKZONOBEL, NEROLAC, ASIAN PAINTS (WHITE)
9 Textured Exterior Paint ASIAN PAINTS (APEX WITH HONEYCOMBROLLER FINISH) ICI
(WEATHER SHIELD WITH HONEYCOMB ROLLER
FINISH,KANSAI NEROLAC (EXCEL WITHHONEYCOMB ROLLER
FINISH)
10 Epoxy Paint ASIAN, ICI, KANSAI NEROLAC,BERGER
11 Water Proofing Cement Paint ASIAN PAINTS, SNOWCEM INDIA LTD. BERGER PAINTS
12 Synthetic Enamel Paint BERGER, ASIAN PAINTS, ICI, J&N,NEROLAC
13 Vitrified Tiles NITCO, SOMANY, HINDWARE,KAJARIA, RAK,
14 Ceramic Floor Tiles/Wall Tiles NITCO, SOMANY, HINDWARE,KAJARIA, RAK,
15 White Glazed Tiles NITCO, SOMANY, HINDWARE,KAJARIA, RAK,
16 Anodized Aluminum Hardware
Fittings EVERITE, KINLONG, ALUALPHA by LGF Sysmac,
17 SS Fittings GODREJ, DORMA, DORSET, HAFELE,KICH,ARCH,KAFF
18 Float Glass, Reflective Glass, Mirror
Glass MODI GUARD, SAINT GOBAIN,TATA-ASHAI, HNG, AIS-
GLEVERBEL,PILKINGTON
19 Hardware, Patch Fittings and
Friction Hinges HETTICH, DORMA, ALUALPHA by LGF Sysmac, DORSET
20 Floor Spring for Aluminum Doors HARDWYN, GODREJ, DORMA,DORSET
21 G.I Pipe JINDAL, TATA, PRAKASH SURYA
22 Silicone Sealant / Sealant G.E, DOW CORNING, WACKER, SIKA,BECKER
23 Hermitically sealed performance
glass Toughened Glass, DGU AUTHORIZED FABRICATORS (MODI GUARD, SAINT GOBAIN,
TATAASHAI
24 EPDM Gasket HANU, OSAKA, ALPS
25 Dash,Anchoring,Hook Fasteners HILTI, FISCHER, BOSCH, WuRTH
26 Wall Putty BIRLA WALL CARE, JK WHITE, Ferrouscrete, Bison Wall Putty
by BERGER
27 G.I. Fittings TATA, UNIK, ZOLOTO
28 HDPE Pipes and Fittings RELIANCE, JAINPIPES, ORIPLAST,DUTRON, SUPREME
29 CI Fittings RBA FERRO, WALTZER, KAJECO,NECO, SKF
30 Float Valve LK, LEADER, ZOLOTO
LIST OF APPROVED MATERIALS(Civil):

31 Centrifugally Cast (spun) Iron Pipes
& Fittings NECO, KAPILANSH, ELECTROSTEEL,SKF, BIC(Bengal Iron
Corp.)
32 Centrifugally Cast (spun) Iron (Class
LA) Pipes NECO, KAPILANSH, ELECTROSTEEL,BIC(Bengal Iron Corp.)
33 C.I. Manhole covers, frames and GI
Gratings RBA FERRO, WALTZER, KAJECO,NECO, SKF, BIC(Bengal Iron
Corp.)
34 SFRC Manhole covers and gratings KK, JAIN, PARGATI
35 Gun metal Valves , globes LEADER, ZOLOTO, LK,
36 CP Brass Fittings JAQUAR, KOHLER, GROHE,AMERICAN STANDARD
37 Sanitary Fittings and Accessories JAQUAR, KOHLER, GROHE,AMERICAN STANDARD
38 Brass ball valve LEADER, ZOLOTO, LK, SANT
39 Non Return valve (Check valve) LEADER, ZOLOTO, LK
40 Bronze Gate Valve LEADER, ZOLOTO, LK, SANT
41 European WC, Indian WC, Cistern,
Washbasin, Urinals, WC seat cover
,Rigid/Flexible connector pipe JAQUAR, HINDWARE, KOHLER
42 Urinal Sensor HINDWARE
43 Gully Traps PERFECT, PARRY, Jayaswal-Neco, MOLI CERAMICS, BIKANER
CLAY Products
44 Ball Valves /in Built Filter RAPID CONTROL, CIM, SKS, L&T VALVES. LEADER, ZOLOTO,
ARCO
45 Butterfly Valve KIRLOSKAR, CASTLE, KSB, LEADER, ZOLOTO
46 Soap Dispenser EURONICS, HINDWARE, JAQUAR
47 Stainless Steel Sink NEELKANTH, NIRALI, JAYNA
48 Aluminum Section JINDAL, HINDALCO, INDALCO,HINDUSTAN
49 MDF Board/Commercial
Board/Particle board/BWP marine
Ply/WPC board GREENPLY,GREENLAM, CENTURYPLY, MERINO
50 Flush Door Shutter CENTURY DOORS, DURO, SWASTIK, A1WOODEN/A-1TEAK,
GREENPLY,MERINO
51 Reinforced Bars(TMT) and
Structural Steel TATA,SAIL,JSW,RATHI,GAINT,APOLLO,CAPITAL
52 False Ceiling tiles AEROLITE,ANUTONE,ARMSTRONG
53 Paver Block KK,SWASTIK,DALAL,NAVYA TILE
54 PVC Waste Pipe PRAYAG,POLYTUF,SUPREME
56 Bamboo Wooden flooring Karra décor Pvt. Ltd., Inovar Fllor India Pvt. Ltd. Or
equivalent brand
57 Woodworks perforated panels Armstrong, Ideatec, Topakustic,Anutone,Fantoni
58 Metal False Ceiling Armstrong, Metallica Ceiling Solution, Hunter Doglus, Saint
Gobain
59 Sluice valve Kirloskar or equivalent
60 CPVC pipes and fitting Plasto, Supreme, Finolex, Astral
61 uPVC pipes and fittings Plasto, Supreme, Finolex, Astral,Prince
62 Unplasticised Rigid PVC pipes Plasto, Supreme, Finolex, Astral
63 Water Tank (6Layer) Plasto , Sintex,
64 PVC mosquito net Saint Gobain

65 Glass film Saint Gobain
66 ACP Sheet Aludecore Eurobond
67 Drain Jali Hindware
68 Hardware for uPVC door and
windows Pego, Zamak,
69 Hydraulic Door Closer Dorset, Godrej
70 Stainless Steel Grade 304 railing Jindal, Sail
71 Ductile Iron Pipes Jindal
72 Structural Steel TATA, JINDAL
73 Tile and stone adhesive, Grouting
Compound Pidilite, Bal Endura, Fosroc, Ferrouscrete
74 G.I. barbed wire TATA, JINDAL
75 Butterfly Valve Kriloskar, L&T
Note: Dean of Infrastructure Planning, IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to add or delete any material and brands in 
the list of preferred material/brands on the recommendation of Engineer-In –charge.

. o N . S m e t I y t Q it n U e t a R t n u o m A R S D N / R S D
1 . tc e l e s ie d g in d lu c in r e riv d ith w r) e d a lo e o h k c a B ( B C J f o g irin H 0 .0 0 5 r u o h 3 .3 7 8 ,9 1 0 .5 6 6 3 9 9 R S D N
2 . tc e l e s ie d g in d lu c in r e riv d ith w r lle ro m o d n te f o g irin H 0 .0 0 1 r u o h 8 .2 0 5 ,8 1 0 .8 2 0 5 8 1 R S D N
3 f , late o t oa p g c tin g in ec rim nn co p a t u g o lyin ith w app or and ith w position fixed ction, in fixing complete se single hoisting, all in er rk prim wo cutting, steel steel l approved including Structura 0 .6 7 4 ,1 4 g k 5 .3 7 1 1 6 .8 0 2 7 6 8 4 .1 0 1 R S D
4 anual for on qm nd m a s m 10 xcavator)/ 50 as upto well e as lead lic th (Hydrau wid earth in vated m ns .5 ea 1 ca , m ex depth mechanical of Engineer-incharge disposal in cm 30 and by ceeding ation out g excav (ex gettin by directed areas including in work over as lift, eans arth lan) ll m E p a
.1 4 il o s f o s d in k ll A 4 .5 3 4 m u c 0 .5 7 7 1 5 .3 8 2 7 7 .1 .6 2 R S D
5 e th g in d lu c x e e d ra g specified : level plinth of rete to p c u con ork t w men ll A ce - n g ositio tterin p shu in d g an layin ring d nte an g e vidin c of t ro os P c
.1 5 d e d ra g 4 : s e rc sou sources) natural ral from natu ed m fro deriv derived ne-III) e (zo siz l d a an in m s no rse oa m m c 2 20 : nt te e a reg em agg c (1 ne :4 :2 to 1 s 0 4 .5 3 4 m u C 0 .5 8 7 ,8 7 9 .8 9 2 0 3 4 3 .3 .1 4 R S D
6 horizontal work fixed wire be cost cement shall metre barbed and earth in post fitted with per embedded struts, corner of made provided posts wires, posts, and be two distance to and horizontal post of Payment the (Cost only end between required side one complete. separately). with one but (minimum), at interwoven on last placed etc. used. post post, for buckles end post paid wire m 15th diagonals 100 and iron be barbed every turn sides to per angle work kg staples, of blocks, both two 9.38 length with concrete on and G.I. weighing concrete Fencing strutted total lines with and of
.1 6 ire w d e rb a b .I. G ith W 0 8 .3 9 0 ,6 6 tre e m 0 .1 2 2 0 .3 7 6 0 6 4 1 .1 8 .1 6 1 R S D
7 e iv g to re tu c fa u n a m d n a d n ra b d e v ro p p a f o t in a p l e m a n e tic e th n sy : e ith ad w sh ting ven in e a n P a
8 g .) d primin shape etc tubes pecial a ing w apply hollo s with gular and lted n o n positio b recta and or welding in square fixing ing g, d, includ hoistin (roun lar er, g, tubu cuttin prim up steel complete. including built approved in etc. etc., work washers of trusses Steel coat
.1 8 s e b tu e p ty d e ld e w d e h is fin t o H 0 .6 9 8 g k 0 .4 4 9 1 4 .2 8 1 4 7 1 .1 6 .1 0 1 R S D
. s R s m e t I R S D l a t o T 0 .0 8 9 9 4 3 0 1 ) A (
) A ( n o 3 7 .9 0 @ M O t s e t a L D W P C r e p s a r o t c a F n io t c e r r o C g in ly p p a r e t f a l a t o T 0 .0 3 5 0 7 0 0 1 ) B (
. s R s m e t I R S D N l a t o T 0 .0 9 6 8 7 1 1 ) C (

Special Conditions of BOQ: -
1. No labour huts shall be allowed in IIT Campus and nothing shall be paid extra on this account.
2. The contractor must visit the site of work /buildings before quoting the rates.
3. No labour to stay in IIT Campus nothing shall be paid extra on this account.
4. Site shall be made available as and when available.
5. The rates for different items of work shall apply for all Heights/ Lifts & Depths (Internal or External)
/Leads and nothing extra shall be paid on these accounts.
6. Scaffolding, Jhula, ladders etc. to carryout works at all heights/Lifts shall be arranged by the contractor
at his own cost. Nothing extra shall be paid on these accounts .
7. Site shall be available in parts or phases as per directions of Engineer in Charge and nothing extra on
this account shall be paid to the Contractor.
8. Rate quoted by the contractor shall be inclusive of GST, ESI & EPF.

NUMBER
# TEXT # NUMBER
# TEXT # NUMBER NUMBER # TEXT #
Sl.
No. Item Description Quantity Units Estimated
Rate
inclusive of
all taxes in
Rs. P TOTAL
AMOUNT
inclusive of
all Taxes in
Rs. P TOTAL AMOUNT
In Words
1 Dressing, 1.000 Nos 11,24,922.00 11,24,922.00 INR Rupees Eleven
Lacs Twenty-Four
Thousand Nine
Hundred Twenty-Two
Only
Total in Figures 11,24,922.00 INR Rupees Eleven
Lacs Twenty-Four
Thousand Nine
Hundred Twenty-Two
Only
Quoted Rate in Figures Select 0.00 INR Zero Only
Quoted Rate in Words INR Zero Only
Percentage BoQ