SOURCE_PDF: 9b5605d82945_Adv_Ex-MTech_AI.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Office of Academics
NH 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur 342037, INDIA
Admission to Executive M.Tech. Artificial Intelligence Program for Working Professionals
IIT Jodhpur invites applications for admission to the Executive M.Tech. Artificial Intelligence program
for working professionals for the Semester commencing in January 2022. AI has been emerging as a
core technology with a significant impact on productivity. To cater to the immediate requirement of
working manpower trained in emerging AI technologies, IIT Jodhpur offers an Executive M.Tech. Artificial
Intelligence program for working professionals. The program has received an overwhelming response
across the country. It is designed to allow professionals to pursue M.Tech. in executive mode as off-campus
students and also periodically visit the institute for experiencing the IIT environment. The program is
conducted by faculties at IIT Jodhpur as well as Industry experts.
Eligibility Criteria and Admission Process
▪
Eligibility:
B.Tech. /B.E. (in any branch of Engineering)/MCA/MSc (Computer Science/Information Technology or
Electronics) with at least 60% marks. At least 2 years of professional work experience with sufficient
hands-on experience in computer programming.
Note: Must have working experience after qualifying degree completion. Internship experience will not be
counted. 2 years of experience should be completed as on December 31, 2021.
▪
Selection Procedure:
Candidates must fill an online application at https://oa.iitj.ac.in/OA_PG_ADMISSION/. Selection will be
based on programming and/or written test and/or interview and/or any other criteria deemed suitable by
the admission committee. Prior research exposure and/or industry experience in areas related to AI will be
considered a plus. The department reserves the right to set any cut off criteria for shortlisting the
candidates. Mere fulfillment of the eligibility criteria does not guarantee that the candidate will be
shortlisted, as the shortlisting criteria are often stricter than the eligibility criteria.
▪
Program Fee:
Rs 6,000/- per credit registered in a semester. For example, if a student registers for 9 credits in a semester,
the fee will be Rs 54,000/- for the semester. Total credit requirement is 62.
Features of the Program:
▪
Class Schedule
Classes will be conducted in the evening (e.g. from 5 PM to 8 PM) or on the weekends at a convenient time.
A student can register for up to 12 credits in a semester. There will be two to three lectures every day, each
of duration 50 to 80 minutes.

▪
Online Instruction
o
Lectures will be in an online mode and students will attend in a synchronous audio-visual mode.
Students can interact and ask questions during the lectures. Recorded lectures and teaching
materials will be made available online.
o
Course management and discussions will be enabled via widely-used tools such as Google
classroom, Piazza and Moodle.
o
Attendance will be taken through online mode.
▪
Contact Weeks
o
There will be mandatory two contact weeks in a semester. Students need to be present during the
contact weeks and attend lectures and discussion sessions with instructors, and participate in
offline evaluations. Alternatively, these contact weeks can be organized in remote locations, subject
to higher demand.
o
The first contact week will align with the 5th week of the semester. The second contact week will
align with the last week of the semester (subjected to COVID19 pandemic situation). Institute may
provide hostel accommodation during the contact weeks, subject to availability.
▪
Assessment
Grading will be based on continuous assessment components throughout the semester, projects and
examinations.
▪
Credit Requirement
o
Students need to earn 62 credits as per the course structure in order to qualify for the degree
M.Tech. Artificial Intelligence.
o
The delivery of the program is primarily targeted for off-campus professionals who are keen to
acquire knowledge and skills in the area of AI. However, a professional, with the necessary
permissions from their organization can choose to attend courses on-campus.
●
Curriculum
The curriculum and course contents are available at https://cse.iitj.ac.in/Ex-MTech-AI.html

Important Dates
Admission Timeline:
●
October 01, 2021: Commencement of online application process.
●
November 05, 2021: Last date for submitting online applications
●
November Mid 2021: Announcement of the shortlisted candidates
●
November 20-25, 2021: Programming/Written-test/Interview
●
December 10, 2021 : Announcement of results
●
January 2022 (first week): Registration and commencement of classes.
Application Procedure
Applicants are requested to use the following link to fill and submit the online application form:
This online link will remain active until November 05, 2021 (11:59 PM IST).
Application Processing Fee:
Rs. 300 to be paid online while submitting the application form.
Contact us
In case of any query with respect to the online application form, candidates may contact: Office of
Automation (oa_automation@iitj.ac.in). Other general queries may be directed to the office of the
Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the following phone number: 0291-2801170/1252 or
Email address: mtech_wp_ai@iitj.ac.in
Please visit the following link for the frequently asked questions: