SOURCE_PDF: 9f9832b97872_MSc-DH-advertisement-2026-27-639056500710665854.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Inter Disciplinary Research Division
NH-62, Nagaur Road,Karwar, Jodhpur 342030, Rajasthan
Admission to M.Sc. Program in Digital Humanities, AY 2026-27
IIT Jodhpur invites applications for admission to M.Sc. program in Digital 
Humanities offered by the Interdisciplinary Research Platform (IDRP) of Digital 
Humanities for the Semester commencing from July 2026. 
The M.Sc. Digital Humanities program brings together pedagogy and research from 
a wide range of academic disciplines to learn, innovate, and apply computational 
techniques to the arts, humanities, social and basic sciences. Students in the 
program shall be trained to appreciate the application and impact of computational 
methods in various areas such a cultural heritage, libraries, archives, and other 
sociocultural facets while developing skills that relevant employers seek in their 
prospective employees.
Detailed information about the Faculty Members associated with Digital Humanities 
at IIT Jodhpur can be obtained from the Institute website at http://iitj.ac.in/dh/
A.​Application Procedure
Applicants are requested to use the following link to fill and submit the application form 
online:
Sports Quota: https://erponline.iitj.ac.in/Admission/index?admiss_ch=53
For admission to the 2026-2027 First Semester commencing in July 2026, this 
online link will remain active till 30 March 2026 
. 
Applicants are required to pay a processing fee of Rs. 300 for GEN-UR, GEN-EWS, 
and OBC applicants, and Rs. 150 for SC, ST, and PD applicants, online when 
submitting the application form. This fee is non-refundable. It may be noted that 
there is no provision to edit the Application Form in the ERP Portal of the Institute 
after the final submission of the Application Form. Application Form with 
incomplete/ incorrect details will be outrightly rejected. 
 
In case of any query with respect to the online application portal, candidates may 
contact ERP Team (email: erp@iitj.ac.in & Phone Number: 0291-2801176), and 
other general queries may be directed to coordinator_dh@iitj.ac.in 
 
Applicants shortlisted for the admission process will be required to bring the final 
submitted application form duly signed along with a copy of all educational 
testimonials at the time of admission.

B.​Eligibility for Admission
The eligibility criteria are prescribed below and represent the absolute minimum 
requirements. The relaxation for SC/ST/PD candidates in the qualifying degree 
marks is as per the rules of the Ministry of Education, Government of India, as 
amended from time to time.
Qualifying Degree​
Marks obtained in Qualifying Degree
A minimum of Bachelor’s Degree or an 
equivalent qualification awarded by any 
university established by an Act of the 
central or state legislature in India, or by 
other educational institutions established by 
an Act of Parliament, or recognized as a 
deemed university under Section 3 of the 
UGC Act, 1956. Additionally, the Bachelor’s 
Degree 
or 
equivalent 
must 
entail 
a
minimum of three years of education 
following 
the 
completion 
of 
higher
secondary 
schooling 
(10+2) 
or 
its
equivalent. The Bachelor's Degree should be 
either 
in 
the 
academic 
disciplines 
of
Humanities or Social Sciences or Basic 
Sciences.
C.​ Reservation Policy
At least 60% marks or a minimum 
Cumulative Performance Index 
(CPI)/Cumulative Grade Point Average 
(CGPA) of 6.0 on a 10-point scale for 
GEN/EWS/OBC candidates, and at least 
55% marks or a minimum CPI/CGPA of 
5.5 on a 10-point scale for SC/ST/PD 
candidates.
The norms of reservation shall be adopted as laid down by the Ministry of Education, 
Government of India, as amended from time to time.
D.​Admission under Sports Quota 
Two supernumerary seats under the regular admission category shall be given to 
sportspersons in each M.Sc. program. See Annexure -I for details and the link 
for sports quota applications.
E.​Important Dates
Milestone​
​ ​
Date
Last date of filling the online application form - ​
30 March 2026
Announcement of shortlisted candidates for 
the admission process
- 05 April 2026
Date of written exam & or Interview​
​ - TBA
F. Important Note on Eligibility and Admission Cancellation
“IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to immediately cancel the admission of any candidate at any stage 
of the admission process or at any stage of the program, if it is found that the candidate does not 
fulfill the prescribed eligibility criteria as per the official advertisement or the candidate has 
provided incorrect/incomplete information in the Application Form. The decision of the Institute in 
such matters will be final and will be binding on the candidates. All legal matters shall be subject 
to the jurisdiction of the Competent Court and Forum in Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India only."

Annexure I
A.​ Guidelines for Admission to the Seats Reserved under Sports Quota for M.Sc. Programs
are as follows:
1.​
Two supernumerary seats under the regular admission category shall be given to 
sportspersons in each M.Sc. program.
3.​
Age relaxation will be as per the Government of India norms for such candidates.
4.​
It is mandatory to meet the minimum eligibility criteria as per the program requirements.
5.​
The weightage for the interview and/or written examination, and sports certificate(s), 
shall be 50% and 50%, respectively.
6.​
The weightage for the Sports Certificate may be calculated as follows:
●​
A person representing India in the above-mentioned games/tournaments - 40 
marks (out of 50)
●​
The above marks shall be calculated on the basis of the highest performance in 
sports during the last five years from the last date of application.
●​
The marks for the above awards will not be clubbed.
Resolving Ties
In the case of a tie at any stage in the preparation of the merit list, candidates with equal 
marks will be grouped together. Their merit will be determined according to the following order 
of criteria:
●​
Year of achievement (Preference shall be given to achievements in the year closer 
to the year of application).
●​
Academic performance at the undergraduate level (Preference shall be given to 
higher academic performance).
●​
If two or more candidates secure equal marks in all the above, the candidate senior 
in age shall rank higher in the order of merit.

Sl.No Sl.No Name of Spor
1. Archery 34. 34. Mallakhamb
2. Athletics 35. Motor Sports
3. Atya – Patya 36. Net Ball
4. Badminton 37. Para Sports
(for sports discipline included in Paralympics
and Asian Para Games) Para Sports
5. Ball-Badminton 38. Pencak Silat
6. Baseball 39. Polo
7. Basketball 40. Powerlifting
8. Billiards & Snookers 41. Shooting
9. Body-Building 42. Shooting Ball
10. Boxing 43. Roll Ball
Bridge 44. Roller Skating
Carrom 45. Rowing
Chess 46. Rugby
Cycling 48. Soft Ball
Cycle Polo 49. Soft Tennis
Deaf Sports 50. Squash
Equestrian 51. Swimming
Fencing 52. Table Tennis
Football 53. Taekwondo
Golf 54. Tenni-Koit
Gymnastics 55. Tennis
Handball 56. Tenpin Bowling
Hockey 57. Triathlon
Ice-Skating 59. Volleyball
Ice-Skiing 60. Weightlifting
Judo 61. Wushu
Kabaddi 62. Wrestling
Karate 63. Yachting
The list of sports that qualify for admission under Sports Quota, vide notification No.DOPT- 
1668767575965 Government of India, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions 
Department of Personnel and Training, ESTT. (Estt. D) dated 18 November 2022 is as follows.
14. 
Cricket 
47. 
Sepak Takraw

Kayaking​ &
Canoeing 64. Tennis Ball Cricket
Kho – Kho 65. Yogasana
Kudo 6

I,​ of
Shri on
Sl.No. Sports Disciplines Team
Represente
d Name of the
Competition &
Year Venue/
D ate Position
Secured (1, 2,
3)
UNDERTAKING FOR ACHIEVEMENTS IN SPORTS
1.​
That as Sportsman/Sportswoman in​
 (name of discipline), I have
represented the team(s) in the competition(s) ​
​
on
date(s) 
​
and also of named position(s) ​
as indicated in
the table below.
2.​
That the certificate(s) mentioned above, as produced by me in support of the above, are
authentic. (Deleted the repetition)
3.​
I understand that if the information/documents supplied by me are found to be false or
incorrect or forged, my admission will stand cancelled.
(Signature of the applicant)