SOURCE_PDF: a20e3aaa7c7d_News-Brochure-for-PhD-admission-638769572625325503.pdf

Application deadline
20 April 2024
How to apply
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
ApplicanJ tO D aH reP U reR
s q uested to scan
NH 6t5h, eNA GAUQR RRO ADc, KoARdWeA R, JOtDoH PURr e34a20d3 0 the
INDIA
advertisement, the eligibility criteria
and instructions to apply online. Program Highlights
• Full time PhD, & MTech-PhD dual degree
scholars are eligible for monthly fellowship,
which can be increased by 40,000 depending
upon the availability of sponsored projects with
the supervisor and the student's performance.
• Opportunity to apply for prestigious Prime
Minister Fellowship.
• Financial support up to 2 Lakhs for attending
international conferences/ workshops abroad.
• Interdisciplinary research opportunities to work
with industries, government organizations and
foreign universities.
• State-of-the-Art research facilities such as
research labs, workshop, high performance
computational facility, and central library,
incubation center.
• Vibrant campus life with a range of cultural,
sports, and social activities.
Contact
In case of any query, candidates may contact:
Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur,
N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur-342030.
Phone: (0291) 2801502, E-mail: office_me@iitj.ac.in
IIT
DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING
Invites applications for MTech-PhD 
dual degree and PhD program
(session starting in July 2024) in the domains of 
Advanced Manufacturing, Thermofluids, and 
Design
Our vision is to advance the research and innovation to 
address the challenges of socio-economic and human 
resource development. The Department of Mechanical 
Engineering is committed to conduct cutting-edge 
research by highly-qualified, expert Faculty Members in the 
pursuit of excellence. The department is currently inviting 
applications for MTech-PhD dual degree, and PhD in 
Mechanical Engineering under three major domains of 
Advanced Manufacturing, Thermofluids, and Design. 
 
Research 
Areas: 
Smart 
manufacturing, 
Additive
manufacturing, Ultra-precision finishing, Weld cracking, 
Artificial 
Intelligence 
and 
machine 
learning, 
Smart
Healthcare, Nano-sensors, Multi-phase flows, Fluid-structure 
interactions, High speed flows, Hydrogen energy, Gas 
turbines, 
Vibration 
and 
acoustics, 
Robotics 
and
automation, Computational solid and fracture mechanics.
Department’s Vision