SOURCE_PDF: a6b3f7a1cb46_a0c4631d-62e4-42ba-8e87-978f0bc6a591.pdf

Hkkjrh; çkS|ksfxdh laLFkku tks/kiqj
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
vfHk'kkld eaMy
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
MINUTES
OF
31st MEETING
11th November, 2022 (Friday); 05:00 P.M. 
 Board Room, IIT Jodhpur

This page is left blank, intentionally

Dr. R. Chidambaram, Former PSA to Govt. of India Chairman
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur Ex-officio Member
Sh. Rakesh Ranjan, Additional Secretary (TE), Ministry of Education Member*
Prof. N. S. Shekhawat, Former Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur Member
Prof. Akhil R. Garg, Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur Member
Prof. Surajit Ghosh, Deptt. of Bioscience & Bioengineering, IITJ Member
(Through Webex)
Prof. Mitali Mukerji, Deptt. of Bioscience & Bioengineering, IITJ Member
Sh. Alok Bansal, Director, Technical Education, Jodhpur, GoR
Representative of State Govt. Nominee Member
Prof. Sampat Raj Vadera, Deputy Director, IIT Jodhpur Special Invitee
Dr. Somnath Ghosh, Acting Registrar Secretary
S.No. Items
31.1 WELCOME BY THE CHAIRMAN
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Board of Governors
Minutes of 31st Meeting
Board Room / Webex, IIT Jodhpur
The following Members were present / attended through Webex / issued comments:
*The Ministry of Education issued the comments on the Agenda vide letter F.No. 12-9/2018-TS-I 
dated 10.11.2022, and the same was considered in the Meeting.
Sh. Anil Bhavarlal Jain, Member, BoG, could not attend the Meeting. 
Sh. P.G. Basak, Advisor (Admn.), Spl. Invitee could not attend the Meeting due to a prior engagement.
The following are the decisions of the BoG on the items of the Agenda:

31.1.1 To Confirm the Minutes of the 30th Meeting of the Board of Governors held
on 14th September, 2022 at Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
31.1.2 Presentation by the two faculty members on their research work
/accomplishments before the BoG.
a. Incubation and Innovation Center Management as a new profession in the
making;
b. Support process / practices at Incubation Centers to improve the efficiency
of public spending on Entrepreneurship Development; and
c. Support and funding challenges for Deep Tech. Startups. a. Incubation and Innovation Center Management as a new profession in the
a. Identifying protocols that can protect the knowledge Worker's interests,
particularly those working in Deep Tech. Startups, in relation to various private
funding agencies; and
b. Deriving insights from the experience of icons like, Mr. Steve Jobs with regard
to founding and scaling Technology Start-ups. a. Identifying protocols that can protect the knowledge Worker's interests,
31.2 INSTITUTE REPORT BY THE DIRECTOR

S.N. Name of Program Number of Students Graduating
5. Master’s in Medical Technology 6
Total 516

1. Inauguration of “Center for Sustainable Drinking Water” by Sh. Gajendra Singh
Shekhawat, Hon’ble Minister of Jal Shakti, GoI;
2. Forty-four Artisans from Jodhpur, Bikaner and Barmer displayed products at Jodhpur
Club under different Clusters; and
3. Talk Series, as well as Craftathon (Craft-Hackathon), was also organized to spur
innovation, entrepreneurship and livelihood incubation in the area of crafts.
The Chairman, BoG, and members appreciated the Director for his excellent efforts
for the growth of the Institute and noted the Institute Report. 1. Inauguration of “Center for Sustainable Drinking Water” by Sh. Gajendra Singh
31.2.1 Action Taken Report on previous decisions of the Board of Governors

31.3 DISCUSSION ITEMS
31.3.1 To consider and approve the recommendations of the 27th Meeting of the
Finance Committee held on 11th November, 2022 at IIT Jodhpur

31.3.2 To consider and approve the recommendations of the 28th Meeting of the
Building & Works Committee (B&WC) held on 31st October, 2022 at IIT
Jodhpur
S.N. Current Students
Strength Ratio Positions
1 4065 10:1 (Faculty) 406 - Faculty
2 10:1.1 (Non-faculty positions) 447-Non-faculty positions

31.3.3 To approve:
(i) Conferment of Degrees to B.Tech., M.Sc., M.Tech., MBA, MBA-
Technology, Masters (Medical Technologies) and Ph.D. Students after
completing all the academic requirements and Certificate of
Specialization to graduating B.Tech. Students in the 8th Convocation of
the Institute; and
(ii) Award of Medals/ Prizes to the Students in the 8th Convocation of the
Institute.
31.3.4 To consider and approve the recommendations of the 31st Meeting of the
Senate held on 7th November, 2022 at IIT Jodhpur
S.N. Name of Program Number of Students Graduating
5. Mas ter’s in Medical Technology 6
Total 516

31.3.5 To consider and approve modifications in the Guidelines to engage
Part-time Advisor(s).
31.3.6 To consider and approve addition in the panel of experts for selection of
Non-teaching positions.
31.3.7 Status of the Departmental Review and the Institute Review.
Existing Guidelines Proposed Amendments
5. Part-Time Advisor(s) would be
engaged for maximum of 4 days in
a month. 5. Part-Time Advisor(s) would be engaged
for 7-8 days (inclusive of journey
days) in a month.
8. Part-Time Advisor(s) would get
reimbursement of expenditure
towards the hotel accommodation
and travel related to Institute work
at par with the entitlement of
Professor of the Institute. 8. Part-Time Advisor(s) would get
reimbursement of expenditure
towards the hotel accommodation OR
accommodation at the Institute’s
Guest House, if available, and travel
to and fro related to Institute work at
par with the entitlement of Professor
/ Registrar of the Institute.

31.4 REPORTING, ADOPTING AND NOTING ITEMS
31.4.1 Report on the implementation of the National Education Policy-2020
31.4.2 Report on the status of filling up Backlog vacancies
The Board noted the report on the status of the filling-up of Backlog vacancies as
31.4.3 Report on Faculty Members and Staff Members joining and resigning from
the Institute
31.4.4 Adoption of Circulars of Ministry of Education, Government of India
31.4.5 Report of R&D Projects sanctioned to the Faculty Members of the Institute
since the last meeting of the BoG
31.4.6 Report of MoUs/Agreement(s) signed with different Institutions /
organizations / companies by the Institute
31.5 RATIFICATION ITEMS
31.5.1 Approvals accorded by Chairman, Board of Governors/Director.
(a) Reports of Selection Committees of Post-Doctoral Fellowships
(b) Approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG through U.O. Note on extension /
appointment through Standing Committee
(c) Reports of Selection Committees of Staff Members

(d) Reports of Standing Committees
(e) Various approvals accorded by the Chairman, BoG through U.O. Note.
31.6 Any other item with the prior permission of the Chairman
31.6.1 Reporting the approval accorded by the Director towards the corrections of
Typographical & Functional errors in the Recruitment & Promotion Rules
2021.
31.6.2 Child Care Leave request of Dr. Rajlaxmi Chouhan, Assistant Professor,
Department of Electrical Engineering.
The Meeting concluded with thanks to the Chairman, BoG and Members of the Board of 
Governors.
Acting Registrar & Secretary, BoG
Sd/- 
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Approved 
 
 
 
Sd/- 
Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur