SOURCE_PDF: a82d7f397a60_IITJ_TISC_WhizHack_Cybint_Bootcamp_Brochure2021.pdf

Presents
India's 1st Dual Certificate Program
Powered by
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF 
TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
Technology Innovation & 
Startup Centre (TISC)
Israel

India today not only faces unprecedented opportunity of widespread digital adoption but also 
threat of sophisticated global cyber attacks.
IITs have been at the forefront of nation building through innovation and technology 
development. Five of the seven Indian companies that have recently entered the unicorn 
club—startups valued over $1 billion—were founded by entrepreneurs who were trained at an IIT.
IIT Jodhpur has specialised in joint initiatives with industry to meet modern technology needs of 
India. WhizHack Technology is incubating a Centre of Excellence in Cybersecurity at IIT Jodhpur 
with focus on developing technologies and training solutions to empower Indians to tackle next 
generation of Indian and global cyber challenges.
The Advanced Certificate Bootcamp Program in Cyber Defense blends the best of Indian 
academicians, top industry experts, Israeli pedagogy and best practises lab to provide a unique 
learning experience and dual certification to learners. Cyber security being a global issue, 
excelling in skillsets automatically would allow learners to access the best of Global and Indian 
careers.

Cyber Defense Bootcamp
Get the Skills. Land the Job.
Dual Certification from 
the Best of India and the Globe
The explosion of high tech cyber attacks has led to industry and Government to shift 
focus to "Proactive Cyber Defence". This means acting in anticipation to oppose an 
attack involving computers and network. This skillset has maximum potential demand 
from employers, in current and future.
The Cyber Defense Bootcamp at WhizHack covers the hands-on and practical skills 
necessary for Bootcampers to land high-paying careers in cybersecurity, one of the 
world’s fastest growing industries.
The Cyber Defense Bootcamp is an accelerated cybersecurity training program designed 
to successfully prepare people with little or no background in IT for entry level jobs in 
cybersecurity, a highly in-demand and lucrative career path. The Bootcamp is delivered 
completely online with both live video classroom sessions and online self-paced 
activities.

Why Cyber security 
and Cyber Defence?
Not only is it a hot career path, but the
field has had 0% unemployment for nearly
a decade. With plentiful opportunities and
competitive compensation, the only thing
standing in your way of a lucrative, future-
proof global career is skill and
Cybersecurity is the fastest growing
market in technology with 30x growth
over the last decade.
Selections to the Program will be on the
basis of following
Ÿ
 Aptitude for Cyber Security
Ÿ
 Academic background
Ÿ
 Statement of Purpose
Graduates from any discipline can apply
The Cyber Defense Remote Bootcamp 
is for anyone interested in becoming a 
Global Cyber Defense Expert. The 
training will ensure learners get the best 
blend of skill sets to tackle global cyber 
threats and also certification that’s 
valued in India and beyond.

The Cyber Defense Remote Bootcamp was developed around military training methodologies
and hands-on learning. We know that everyone learns differently which is why
offers Bootcampers with two accelerated tracks:
• 
Full time, 3 months: Fully online activities and live virtual classes every day with
the Bootcamp Facilitator, with built-in one-on-one time.
• 
Part time, 6 months: This will cover the same content, over a longer period of time
and with live virtual classes occurring only twice a week, 2 hours each day.
• 
12 months of continued access to
online learning platform
• 
Connection to our alumni and
career network
• 
A new career in: Cyber Forensics
Analyst, Network Operations
Specialist, Cyber Analyst, Cyber
Incident Responder, Cyber
Infrastructure Support Specialist
How it Works:
Upon Graduation
During Bootcamp
• 
Self-paced and flexible learning
with instant feedback
• 
Curriculum based on National
Initiative for Cybersecurity
Education (NICE)
• 
Access to faculties and industry
experts
• 
Guidance on job searching and
resume building
WhizHack
The dual certification program was developed around Israeli military training methodology and 
live mentoring by top faculties. 50% of pedagogy comprises of hands on learning on live projects 
and simulated scenarios.

• Introduction to the Bootcamp
• Overview of the Cybersecurity Landscape
and Industry
• Basics of Computer and Device Hardware,
Software, Operating Systems and
Processes
• Basics of Networking Traffic, Hardware
Components and Topology
• Network Communication Principles and
Methods
MODULE 1
480 Hours of
quality content
Learn from
anywhere
simulations
• Network and Routing Protocols / Services
• Packet Level Traffic Analysis 
• Hands-on Operation of a Computer
Network and Equipment, Monitoring and
Analyzing Network Traffic Flow, Patterns
and Performance
• Hands-on Creation and Analysis of Critical
Network Servers.
MODULE 2
• Hands-on Creation and Analysis of Telnet,
Web, Data and Active Directory Servers
• Hands-on Analysis of Network Topologies,
Network Mapping and OS Fingerprinting
• Telecommunication Concepts and Range
• System and Network Admin Concepts,
Management Principles and Controls
• Hands-on Creation and Use of Virtual
Machines and Bootable USB OS
MODULE 3
• Overview of Threats, Classes, Attackers,
Tactics, and Application Security Risks
• Hands-on Communications Security
through Encrypting and Decrypting Data
and Medias
• Hands-on Backup and Recovery of Data,
Devices and Servers
• Network Security Principles, Methods,
Protocols, Components and Architectures
MODULE 4
• Hands-on Assessment of Access Controls
and Hardening Techniques to Ensure a
Network’s Security
• Hands-on Configuration and Utilization of a
Firewall (on Windows, Linux and Hardware
• Hands-on Configuration and Utilization
of a Network/Host Intrusion Detection/
Prevention System to Alert and Prevent
Malicious Activity on a Network
MODULE 5
• Hands-on Configuration and Utilization
of a Security Information and Event
Management System to Correlate,
Research, Analyze Logs and Provide Timely
Detection of Misuse, Threats and Malicious
Activity on the Network
• Hands-on Malware Detection, Analysis,
Isolation and Removal
MODULE 6

• Hands-on Forensics Investigation: Logs,
System Files, Media, Memory Dump and
Traffic Monitoring and Analysis
MODULE 7
• Overview of Network Vulnerabilities,
Associated Attacks; Ethical Hacking
Methodologies, Stages, Principles, Tools
and Techniques
• Hands-on Conducting of Vulnerability and
Compliance Scanning; and Correction
Recommendation
• Hands-on Performing Incident Response,
Damage Assessment, Incident Triage,
Tracking and Reporting
MODULE 8
• Full Day Scenarios: Hands-on Protecting a
Network from a Range of Cyber-Attacks
(DDoS, SQL Injection, XSS, Ransomware,
MiTM, ARP Poisoning, etc.)
MODULE 9
• Analysis of System Security and
Organizational Posture Trends
• Analysis of Cyber-Defense Trends and
Staying at the Cutting Edge of the Industry
• Performing of Security Design and
Architecture Evaluation and Ensuing
Recommendation
MODULE 10
• Hands-on Process of the Whole Chain of
Custody for Handling Digital Evidence
• Hands-on Performing of Static and
Dynamic Analysis of Drive Images and
other Data Sources, Recovery and
Mitigation/Remediation of an Enterprise
System
MODULE 11
• Risk and Security Management Processes
and Security Models
• Cybersecurity and Privacy Principles
• Advising on Disaster Recovery,
Contingency and Continuity
• Summary and Presentation by
Bootcampers
• Technical and Soft-Skill Preparation of a
Job Interview
• Final Hands-on Scenario
MODULE 12
About Cybint, Israel
Cybint is a global cyber education company that has been developed by a team of 
Israeli military cyber experts, industry professionals, and educators. Cybint has 
partnered with WhizHack Technology for training students and professionals in 
India.
Cyber-Forensic Investigation 
Methodologies, Mindset, Tools

Dr. Somitra Sanadhya : Associate Professor, IIT Jodhpur
Prof. Somitra is a leading exponent in India in Cyber Security including Cryptography, 
Quantum Computation and Blockchain and has worked in top projects with Indian 
Defence and Industry. He was previously Head of Computer Department at IIT Ropar. He 
is a B.Tech from IIT Delhi and Ph.D in Cryptology from Indian Statistical Institute.
Dr. Debasis Das: Assistant Professor, IIT Jodhpur
Prof. Debasis specialises in Cyber Defense particularly Network Security and Forensics. 
He has worked on multiple national projects with DST (Department of Science and 
Technology) and has earlier taught in BITS Pilani. He has done a Ph.D. in Compuer Science 
from IIT Patna
Roy Zur: CEO, Cybint Solutions
Roy is the founder and CEO of Cybint, a cyber education company. As a retired Israeli 
Defense Forces Major, Roy has more than 15 years of experience in cybersecurity and 
intelligence operations and has developed cyber education programs and technological 
solutions for companies, educational institutions and government agencies around the 
world.
Sanjay Sengupta: CTO, WhizHack Technologies
Sanjay is a leading industry expert with more then 2 decades of experiences across 
Silicon Valley and India. Sanjay was the Product Architect of World's #1 Cyber Deception 
company, Attivo Networks and currently leads all technology initiatives with WhizHack 
Technology. Sanjay is a M.Tech in Computer Science
Aviel Tzarfaty: Product Manager, Cybint Solutions
Aviel manages Cybint's enterprise cybersecurity training using behavioral changing 
techniques. He specializes on Offensive Security, Cyber Defense, Risk Management, and 
Incident Response. He is a certified Network Security Specialist.
Program Fee : Rs. 225,000+GST
Early Bird Fee: Rs. 200,000+GST (subject to acceptance of Statement of Purpose)
EMI options against credit cards available
For details, pls visit 
 or write to 
http:/
/www.whizhack.com/tisc-iit-jodhpur-bootcamp
Address: WhizHack Technologies Pvt. Ltd.
4th Floor, JMD Empire Square, M G Road, Gurgaon - 122 001
Faculty & Mentors
Fee Details