SOURCE_PDF: add21cfbb77b_bridge-engg-638842185002942085.pdf

A Concept Note
On
in
Bridge Engineering
DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL AND INFRASTRUCTRE ENGINEERING
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR

Introduction
Upscaling and modernization of built infrastructure in India are taking place at an 
unprecedented scale in line with its Viksit Bharat 2047 vision. India has about 1,73,000 
bridges, and they are one of the vital arteries of the transportation infrastructure. Bridges 
in their service life are susceptible to extreme events, such as earthquakes, wind, fire, and 
flood. They are also prone to environmental conditions such as scouring and corrosion, 
and these environmental conditions often deteriorate the service life. The design and 
maintenance of bridges are governed by numerous factors, for instance, assessment of 
loads, choice of materials, analysis tools, codal provisions, connection detailing, and 
maintenance manual. A well-designed bridge often requires less maintenance and should 
have enough resistance against previously mentioned durability concerns. In recent 
decades, there has been a noticeable growth in the scale and complexity of bridge 
structures in India and abroad. For example, the high-speed rail (HSR) project is one of 
the lofty visions of the Government of India, which aims to develop a rail transport 
network with operating speeds as high as 350 km/hr. In HSR, the viaduct bridge 
structures are one of the critical components. At the same time, several bridges in India 
are aged and require frequent maintenance and assessment of their health. Therefore, in 
the coming decades, manpower training, skill development, and upgradation, as well as 
indigenous technology developments, are vital in the area of bridge engineering.
The bridge engineering academic curriculum in India is insufficient for the current civil 
engineering industry requirements. It lacks the required rigor compared to the well-
established civil engineering courses (e.g., earthquake engineering, construction 
technology, etc.). For instance, in undergraduate (UG) civil engineering programs, 
students are usually given a perspective on bridge structures in structural analysis and 
design courses without much attention to aforementioned critical factors. The emphasis 
on codal provisions and construction practices is not on par with buildings and other 
critical structures. It should be mentioned that postgraduate (PG) civil engineering 
programs of institutes of repute, such as IITs and NITs offer a few electives on bridge 
engineering. However, elective courses are subject to the availability of expert faculties. 
Consequently, designers and civil engineering practitioners rely on computational 
software without proper understanding of bridge engineering. This is an inappropriate 
practice, and recently, there have been many instances of bridge collapse during 
construction. Therefore, a rigorous curriculum aiming at developing graduate engineers 
in the domain of bridge engineering is the need of the hour. This concept note presents 
the brief outline of an M.Tech. program in bridge engineering. 
 
Program Structure
The program structure will be as per the Institute’s M.Tech. program norms. The 
coursework will include foundational courses and a list of electives. The foundational 
courses focus on topics in mathematics, solid and fluid mechanics, analysis and design,

Category Program Core
(PC) Electives M.Tech. Project
(MP) Non-Graded
Courses
Credits 12 12 32 2
that are relevant to bridge engineering. The elective courses focus on various themes in 
bridge engineering, viz., bridge construction, foundation, finite element analysis, 
monitoring and condition assessment, durability and repair, etc. The tentative core and 
elective courses are outlined below, subject to the approval of the institute’s senate.
Program Core Courses (PC)
• Mathematics for Civil Engineering 
• Advanced Solid and Fluid Mechanics 
• Analysis of Bridge Structures 
• Design of Bridge Structures
Elective Courses
• Bridge Site Selection and Foundation Safety 
• Bridge Materials, Construction and Assessment 
• Finite Element Method 
• Structural Dynamics 
• Advanced Concrete Technology 
• Prestressed Concrete Structures 
• Cable-Supported Bridges 
• Bridge Foundation 
• Introduction to Structural Health Monitoring