SOURCE_PDF: add3cef56d8c_design-638772089948454268.pdf

DESIGNS - "Desert EcoSystem Innovations Guided by Natural Selectionâ?? | 31st July 
2021 | 9.30 am
On behalf of the Department of Bioscience and Bioengineering, the organizing team of 
DESIGNS - "Desert EcoSystem Innovations Guided by Natural Selection” invites you to join 
us for a Jamboree on the 31st of July 2021. This event is organised by the Department of 
Bioscience and Bioengineering in collaboration with the Jodhpur City Knowledge and 
Innovation Cluster. The Jamboree will provide a platform to present and discuss different 
aspects and perspectives on desert sciences around the world including the Thar that 
provide interesting insights on evolution and adaptation of different life forms in arid 
regions through biological innovations.
This day-long event would have convergence of themes from diverse disciplines - geology, 
genomics, desert medicine from modern and traditional knowledge systems, 
bioengineering, nano-medicine, digital health technologies, engineering and social 
sciences. Besides members of the JCKIC cluster, we would also have a special invited 
lecture by Dr Pranay Lal , the author of “Indica” that traces the natural history of the Indian 
subcontinent through evidences from different streams. He is a biochemist and an artist 
who works in public health and environment. Also in the panel along with other leaders we 
would also have Mr Pradip Krishen, who besides being a renowned filmmaker is now 
famously called as ecological gardener and has been the chief architect of the rewilding 
scheme at Rao Jodha Desert Rock Park near Mehrangarh fort in Jodhpur, Rajasthan.
There would also be a panel discussion to deliberate on challenges and opportunities in 
the Thar ecosystem region and how we could develop a transdisciplinary approach for 
understanding metasystems of Thar. This could yield novel biological insights into adaptive 
mechanisms and evolution, enable designs of innovative bioinspired engineering 
solutions, provide sustainable solutions for a conserved ecosystem and aid in 
understanding human health and development of disease in arid regions. We would have 
e-posters by student groups and flash presentations of the best five posters. We have also 
planned a demonstration of an app by the student community group of IIT for a citizen 
science approach to understanding flora and fauna of Thar.
The event would be held online and we would share further event details soon. We look 
forward to your active participation !
Event flyer | Event program | Poster template | Poster making guidelines | Poster 
Submission
Registration closes: 30.07.21 5.00 pm IST 
ePoster submission deadline: 25.07.21 5.00 pm IST