SOURCE_PDF: af6d8b7046f3_Online-Course-on-FORESIGHT-METHODS-CTFP-639075509049748062.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Online Course on FORESIGHT METHODS
Centre for Technology Foresight and Policy (CTFP), 
 Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur announces...
Registration Link

The course aims to introduce participants to the basics of foresight and the 
various foresight techniques. The course will focus on various qualitative 
and quantitative foresight methods followed by sessions on foresight- 
informed design of public policy.
Foresight is a systematic process of vision building for a 
country, region, or an organization. The objective of foresight is 
not to predict the future but to shape it.
Foresight involves examining multiple possible futures that can 
be attained or avoided. Foresight and foresight methods are 
essential for long-term decision making.
Some of the most widely used foresight methods are scenario 
planning, Delphi method, horizon scanning, and technology 
road mapping.
Program Introduction:

Mastering Methods and Strategies for Foresight
/
¡
 
ç
# Unlock the Power of Foresight: Delve into methods and strategies designed to 
predict and shape the future.
˙
Q
• Learn Simulation Modelling: Gain expertise in simulation modelling 
techniques that provide insights for foresight exercises.
Analyzing Real-World Systems for Foresight-Informed Policies
'
 
-
 
` Design Forward-Thinking Policies: Learn to analyse real-world systems 
to design effective public policies.
Course Objectives

Duration of the Program 
28 February to 01 March 2026 
 Mode of Delivery: ONLINE
Information on the Course Coordinator
Name: Dr. Vinod Vijay Kumar 
Email: vinodvk@iitj.ac.in 
Designation: Assistant Professor 
Department: Centre for Technology Foresight and Policy (CTFP)
Organized by 
Centre for Technology Foresight and Policy (CTFP), IIT Jodhpur
Fee Structure (Inclusive of 18% GST)
 For Academia 
 
Amount: INR 6,000/-
 For Students 
 
Amount: INR 3,000/-
 For Industry/ R&D 
 
Amount: INR 8,000/-
E - Certificate will be provided to all registered participants
Key Information

 Introduction to Foresight and Futures Thinking
 Qualitative Methods for Foresight
 Scenario Planning
 System Dynamics for Foresight
 Complex Adaptive Systems and Policy Design
 Why Do Systems Surprise Us?
 Design Futures: Tools and Methods
The course will be delivered by faculty from IIT Jodhpur and invited external experts.
Indicative Themes

The Centre for Technology Foresight and Policy (CTFP) came into existence on 14 
January 2020. The Centre plans to focus on evolving areas of technology with an 
aim to provide future roadmaps and policy recommendations. The Centre also 
plans to promote foresight and its methodologies in the public and private sectors.
 To foster directed development of advanced technologies.
 To teach professionals about technology and strategic foresight to build
capacity in this field in India.
 Help other organizations grow their own foresight capacity and plan.
 Create links with international technology and strategic foresight
institutions to facilitate collaborations and information exchanges.
 To become policy think-tank for the Governments, Industries and Academia.
About CTFP

The Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur was founded in 2008 with a focus on technology 
education and research to promote the economic development of India. Its permanent 
campus is spread over 852 acres and has state-of-the art facilities for research and academic 
activities. The institute is committed to a multidisciplinary approach to technology 
development and has organized its degree programs through departments and research 
activities through centers for technologies.
In addition to its focus on traditional education, IIT Jodhpur has been actively pursuing 
executive education programs for working professionals in India. The institute has been 
leveraging its academic expertise, industry collaborations, and infrastructure to create a range 
of high-quality programs that cater to the needs of today's professionals. Its faculty members, 
with extensive industry experience and academic expertise, bring a unique blend of theoretical 
knowledge and practical experience to the classroom.
To establish itself as a leader in executive education, IT Jodhpur has been developing 
programs that are relevant and contemporary to the evolving needs of the industry. It has also 
established strong industry linkages to develop customized programs that cater to the specific 
needs of their employees. The institute has invested in state-of-the-art infrastructure, modem 
classrooms, well-equipped labs, a vast collection of books and research papers in the library, 
and online learning platforms and tools to provide an immersive learning experience to the 
participants.
About IIT Jodhpur

Enquire Now
Indian Institute of
Technology Jodhpur,
NH62 Nagaur Road,
Karwar 342030, Jodhpur,