SOURCE_PDF: af9cca2e4906_2024-08-20-66c45a9562a61-1724144277.pdf

Chairperson Deputy Director Prof. Sampat Raj Vadera
Members Dean/Associate Dean (Students) Prof. Ankita Sharma
Dean/Associate Dean (DG/PG Academics) Prof. Atul Kumar
Prof. Gaurav Harit
Dean/Associate Dean (Hostel Affairs) Dr. Indranil Banerji
Chairperson, Student We llbein g Committee Dr. Saakshi Dhanekar
Diversity Officer Prof. Samanwita Pal
Social Scientist Dr. Farhat Naz
Chairman Dean/Associate Dean (Hostel Affairs) Dr. lndranil Banerji
Members Wardens and Assistantwardensofall Hostels Wardens and Assistant
Wardens of all 17 hostels
Chairperson, Student Wellbeing Committee Dr. Saakshi Dhanekar
Senior faculty Prof. Meenu Chhabra
Senior faculty Prof. Sandeep Yadav
Senior faculty Dr. Kiran Hiremath
Equal opportunity cell liaisoning officers Dr. Moumita Mandai,
Dr. A~n~ala Gandi,
Prof. ree Prakash
Tiwari
SSeecucurirtiytOy fOficfefirce Mr. Verander Singh
Dated: 26th August 2023
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NOTIFICATION
In supersession of earlier orders, the Anti-Ragging Committee and Anti-Ragging Squad are hereby
constituted as below:
The Committee and Squad can co-opt other Members as may be found necessary for the functioning
of the same, with the prior approval of the Competent Authority.
Roles and responsibilities of Anti-Ragging Committee:
•
The committee will be in charge of raising student knowledge regarding anti-ragging laws, consequences,
and the applicable laws in place.
•
The committee will ensure compliance with the provisions of the Regulations and any ragging-related law
currently in effect.
•
The committee will ban, prevent, and eliminate the cause of ragging, which includes any conduct by any
student or students, whether through words spoken or written or through an act that has the effect of
taunting, treating, or handling a fresher or any other student with rudeness.
•
The committee will monitor and supervise the Anti-Ragging Squad's work preventing ragging in the
institution.

Roles and responsibilities of Anti-ragging squad:
•
The Squad will always stay mobile, aware, and active while performing vigil, oversight, and patrolling
functions. The Anti-Ragging Squad will be called upon to conduct surprise raids on hostels and other
locations vulnerable to incidents and having the potential for ragging. It will be authorized to check such
locations.
•
The Squad will be called upon to conduct surprise raids on hostels and other locations vulnerable to
incidents and having the potential for ragging and will be authorized to check such locations.
•
The Anti-Ragging Squad shall also conduct an on-the-spot investigation into any incidents of ragging
referred to it by the Head of the institution, any member of the faculty or any member of the staff, any
student, any parent or guardian, any employee of a service provider, or any other person, as the case may
be; and the investigation report, along with recommendations, shall be submitted to the Anti-Ragging
Committee for action.
•
Provided, however, that the Anti-Ragging Squad shall conduct such inquiry following a fair and
transparent procedure and the principles of natural justice, and after giving the student or students accused
of ragging and other witnesses an adequate opportunity to present the facts, documents, and points of view
concerning the incidents of ragging, as well as taking into account any other relevant information that may
be required.
•
To notify the anti-ragging committee of any ragging-related issues discovered during surprise checks.
This issues with the approval of the Competent Authority.
To:
1. Chairperson and Members of the Committee and Squad
Copy to - for kind information
1.
Director
2.
Deputy Director
3.
All Deans/Associate DeanslHead of Deptt./Centers/Schools/Division
4.
All Wardens
5.
All Faculty and Staff Members
6.
Deputy Registrar (Students)
7.
Office of Students
8.
Office of Academics
9.
Webmaster for uploading in the INTRANET of the Institute's website
(Dr. Somnath Ghosh)
Offg. Registrar