SOURCE_PDF: b247d01b2c97_updatedWorking-professtional-MTech-AI-Advt-2023.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Office of Academics
NH 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur 342037,
INDIA Phone: (0291) 2801 132;
Admission to Executive M.Tech. Artificial Intelligence Program for Working Professionals
IIT Jodhpur invites applications for admission to the Executive M.Tech. Artificial Intelligence program 
for working professionals for the Semester commencing in January 2024. AI has been emerging as a 
core technology with a significant impact on productivity. To cater to the immediate requirement of 
working manpower trained in emerging AI technologies, IIT Jodhpur offers an Executive M.Tech. Artificial 
Intelligence program for working professionals. The program has received an overwhelming response 
across the country. It is designed to allow professionals to pursue M.Tech. in executive mode as off- 
campus students and also periodically visit the institute for experiencing the IIT environment. The 
program is conducted by faculties at IIT Jodhpur as well as Industry experts.
Eligibility Criteria and Admission Process
▪ 
Eligibility: 
B.Tech. /B.E. (in any branch of Engineering)/MCA/MSc (Computer Science/Information Technology or 
Electronics) with at least 60% marks. At least 2 years of professional work experience with sufficient 
hands-on experience in computer programming.
Note: Must have working experience after qualifying degree completion. Internship experience will not
be counted. 2 years of experience should be completed as on December 18, 2023.
▪ 
Selection Procedure: 
Candidates must fill an online application at erp.iitj.ac.in Selection will be based on programming and/or 
written test and/or interview and/or any other criteria deemed suitable by the admission committee. Prior 
research exposure and/or industry experience in areas related to AI will be considered a plus. The 
department reserves the right to set any cut off criteria for shortlisting the candidates. Mere fulfilment of 
the eligibility criteria does not guarantee that the candidate will be shortlisted, as the shortlisting criteria 
are often stricter than the eligibility criteria.
▪ 
Program Fee: 
Fee Payment Schedule (excluding summer semester): 
Semester I:77,500 Rupees 
Semester II:77,500 Rupees 
Semester III:77,500 Rupees 
Semester IV:77,500 Rupees 
Semester V:77,500 Rupees 
Semester VI:77,500 Rupees
Features of the Program:
▪ Class Schedule
Classes will be conducted in the evening (e.g. from 5 PM to 8 PM) or on the weekends at a convenient time. 
A student can register for up to 12 credits in a semester. There will be two to three lectures every day, each 
of duration 50 to 80 minutes.

▪ Online Instruction
o Lectures will be in an online mode and students will attend in a synchronous audio-visual mode.
Students can interact and ask questions during the lectures. Recorded lectures and teaching 
materials will be made available online.
o Course management and discussions will be enabled via widely-used tools such as Google
classroom, Piazza and Moodle.
o 
Attendance will be taken through online mode.
▪ Campus immersion:
o To enrich the academic and personal growth by fostering face-to-face interaction, hands-on
activities, and collaborative learning experiences. Over the course of these 10 days, Students will 
have the valuable opportunity to engage with their peers, interact closely with faculty members, 
and explore various campus resources in a more immersive manner. Attendance during this 10- 
day period is compulsory for all students, and any unavoidable absences should be communicated 
in advance with valid reasons.
▪ Assessment
Grading will be based on continuous assessment components throughout the semester, projects and 
examinations.
• 
Major Exams will be conducted for relevant courses in physical mode. This decision has 
been made to ensure a fair and secure testing environment, enabling students to 
effectively showcase their understanding of the course material. Both the 10- day 
mandatory campus immersion and the in-person major exams are integral components of 
our commitment to providing a comprehensive education that equips students for success 
in their academic and professional endeavors.
▪ Credit Requirement
o Students need to earn 62 credits as per the course structure in order to qualify for the degree
M.Tech. Artificial Intelligence.
o The delivery of the program is primarily targeted for off-campus professionals who are keen to
acquire knowledge and skills in the area of AI. However, a professional, with the necessary 
permissions from their organization can choose to attend courses on-campus.
● Curriculum
The curriculum and course contents are available at https://cse.iitj.ac.in/Ex-MTech-AI.html

Important Dates 
Admission Timeline:
● 
December 11, 2023: Commencement of online application process.
● 
December 18, 2023: Last date for submitting online applications (Extended till 26 December 2023)
● 
January 2024 (First Week): Registration and commencement of classes.
● 
Information regarding shortlisting and final result will be announced on CSE website cse.iitj.ac.in
Application Procedure 
Applicants are requested to use the following link to fill and submit the online application form:
This online link will remain active until December 18, 2023 (11:59 PM IST).
Application Processing Fee:
Rs. 300 to be paid online while submitting the application form.
Contact us
In case of any query with respect to the online application form, candidates may contact: 
oa_automation@iitj.ac.in other general queries may be directed to the office of the Department of 
Computer Science and Engineering at the following phone number: 0291-2801295 or Email address: 
mtech_wp_ai@iitj.ac.in
Please visit the following link for the frequently asked questions:
Brochure Link: