SOURCE_PDF: b475294f8241_0467567b-7b2f-40a1-b6b2-1ca0bfdf329f.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Senate
Minutes of
20'h Meeting
22 May 2O2O (Friday), 3:00 PN{ otrwards
1 June 2O2O (Monday) ,2,30 PM onwards
Board Room, IIT JodhPur

This page is left blank, intentionally.

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
The followin
members were
sicall
and thro
h WebEx:
Chairman
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Invitee
Invitee
Invitee
Invitee
Member
Senate
Minutes of 20th Meeting
22 May 2020 (Friday) 3:00 prn onwards
& I June 2020 (Monday) 2:30 prn onwards
Board Roorn, IIT Jodhpur
Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur
H. P. Khincha, chairman, Karnataka State Innovation council, Bangalore
Sanjeev Misra, Director, AIIMS, Jodhpur
Purnima Singh, Deptt. of Humanities & Social Sciences, IIT Delhi
Souvik Bhattacharyyd, Vice Chancellor, BITS Pilani
Jitendra Balakrishnan, CTO-Products, Sterlite Technologies
S. R. Vadera, Professor and Head (PH)
M.P, Gupta, Professor and Head School of Management & Entrepreneurship
Surajit Ghosh, Dean (R & D)
Prof. Mayank Vatsa, Deptt, of CS&E
Prof. Richa Singh, Professor & DRC Chairman (CSE)
Pradip K. Tewari, Head (Chemical Engineering)
B, P, Kashyap, Head(MT)
Anil Tiwari, Head (EE)
Ankita Sharma, Head (HS)
Gaurav Bhatnagar, Head (MA)
Gaurav Harit, Head (CSE)
Ritu Gupta, Head (CY)
Prodyut Ranjan Chakraborty, Head (ME)
Meenu Chhabra, Head (BB)
Hari Narayan, DRC, Chairman, HSS
Deepak Arora, DRC, Chairman, Chemical Engineering
Puneet Sharma, DRC, Chairman, Mathematics and Chairman SHWC
Sushmita Jha, DRC, Chairperson, BB
Rakesh K sharma, DRC chairman, Chemistry and Associate Dean(R&D)
Ashutosh Kumar Alok, DRC, Chairman, Physics
Anand Krishnan Plappally, DRC, Chairman, ME and Head (CETST)
Shree Prakash Tiwari, DRC, Chairman, EE
Appala Naidu Gandi, DRC, Chairman, MT
Deepak Kumar M. Fulwani, Head, Centre for Technology Foresight & policy
Kaushal A, Desai, Associate Dean (lnternational Relations and Outreach)
Samanwita Pal, Associate Dean (Students)
Somnath Ghosh, Associate Dean (Academics-pG programs)
Suril V, Shah, Associate Dean (Academics-UG Programs)
Shivan Nirne, General Secretary, Student Gymkhana

1
37 I
3ql
The
Umair Anis, Joint Secretary, Academics & Career Society
Gautam Jain, Secretary, Elected Representatives Society
P.G. Basak, OfficiatingBgEqlg r
followinq members could not attend the l'lgglfng-
Member
Member
Secretar
1
B, Ravindra, Associate De@
Invitee
2
C. Venkatesan, Professor-in-charge (Faculty)
Member
The following are the outcomes of the Senate Meeting:
Part A: open Door Meeting
Welcome by the Chairman
The Chairman welcomed all Members and Invitees to the 20th Meeting of
the Senate. He briefed the Members on the agenda items of the Meeting.
The Chairman briefed the members
1. about the duration ofsummer vacation and commencement of
interactions from 22nd June 2020. It was also appraised that if the plan
'A'could not be implemented, then plan 'B'may be adopted as decided
in 4th ECS meeting.
staring of new B. Tech. programmes in AI and Data Science, Chemical
Engineering, and Civil Engineering.
the classes were running in online mode
In comparison to last year, the faculty strength has been increased to
140 and student strength 1602. The Student strength will further
increase to more than 2200 in A.Y. 2020-2L.
the research project funding has increased from Rs.7 Crore in 2018-
19 to Rs. 25 Crore in 2019-20. The chairman extended his thanks to
faculty members for their effort to achieve the same,
Confirmation of Minutes of the 79tn Meeting of the Senate held on 9
December 2O19
The Senrte confirmed the Minutes of the 19il' Meeting of the Senate, as
circulated.
W 
tifen on decisions of the 19th Meeting of the
Senate held on 9 December 2O19
The Senate noted the Action Taken R
Discussion ltem
Action
Taken
Creation of New Academic Entities
Implemented
Proposal for Startinq of MBA Programme Implemented
Proposal of New B.Tech programme to be 
Implemented
started from AY 2020 Semester I
Capability linked Double B.Tech. witt, a 
Implemented
second Deqree in Engineering Science
Proposed Intake for
Semester I
UG programs AY 2020
I ImOlemented
Proposal for New PG Programs and Intake to 
Implemented
be started from AY 2020-21

L9.2.7
Joint Ph.D./ Joint Academic Programmes with
Foreio n/Other Universities
Implemented
19.2.B
Certificates courses and
IITJ
Diploma offered by
In progress
19.2.9
Change in Thesis Submission Policy for Old
Ph.D. student's reqistered before July 2019
Implemented
19.2. 10
batches ImPlemented
Change in the attendance
undergoing transition Plan
policy for
L9,2,L7
Leave rules for Ph,D, Students joined before
July 2OL9 to be implemented as per new
requlations from luly 2019 onwards
Implemented
19.2.12
Approvat of Convocation date 17 December Implemented
20t9
19 .2. 13
Implemented
1
Appeal against Termination from M'Tech.
Procram - Tusharlohora (M15ME013)
t9.2.14
Proposal for initiating Donor's Gold Medal
Implemented
19.2.L5
Proposal for creation of Executive Committee
of the Senate
Implemented
79.2.t6
Proposal for Joint Programme for Masters in
Medical Technologies, loint Programme for
Ph. D. in Medica I Tech nolog ies and Joint
Programme for Masters and Ph.D' in Medical l
Tec-hnologies between Indian Institute of
Technology and All India Institute of Medical
Sciences, Jodhpur
Implemented
L9,2,L7
olicY of IIT I tmPlemented
)
Jodhpur
Discussion ltems
ffitionof 
ongoingsem@
It was recommended in the Special meeting of the Executive Committee
of Senate held on 1 April 2020, to complete the remaining academic
curriculum in online mode by 30th April 2020, and to resume physical
interaction again from 22 June 2020 for three weeks and complete
evaluation of the ongoing semester by July end, However, based on the
prevailing situation Oue 1o COVID-19 it is difficult to accommodate all
students on the campus in the month of lune ensuring social distancing.
In view of the same, the following was proposed for the consideration of
the Senate:
1. Implement Plan-B as recommended by ECS in its meeting held on 1
npiit ZOZO to complete all academic activities including examination in
online mode.
2. Students will have online revision classes from 22 June 2020 to 30
June 2020 whereas lab exams would be completed during 1-14 July
2020.
3. Online proctored examinations will be conducted for the end semester
examination for the ongoing semester during 15-30 July 2020 '
Students having no internet connection can

eiimination pnysically at iit :oOnpur. If such students are unable to
travel to IIT'Jodhpur due tO travel restrictions, an alternate
examination will be scheduled at a later date'
4, For the ongoing semester, the total weightage .of the minor I
examination-(no[ more than 20olo of total weightage) and continuous
assessment component can be around 600/o of total weightage' For
the remaining 40%, up to half of the weightage will be given to
assessment through quizzeS, assignments, projects, and take-home
examination and remaining can be evaluated through the end
semester examination.
5, For laboratory courses, viva voce can be conducted for end semester
assessment. Further, simulations in various licensed software, cAD
modules, or tools can also be explored for laboratory assessment'
6. A hands-on course which is part of any programme will be evaluated
by a term PaPer on the same toPic.
7. Second-year students of M,Tech, and M.Sc. can complete the thesis
evaluation through the online viva-voce examination by 30 luly 2020,
Students may o-pt to wait to complete the remaining part of the
project at the Campus and subsequently complete the viva-voce
examination. All students who cannot complete the examination by 30
July 2020 due to genuine reasons will be required to apply for an
extension with the recommendation of the supervisor.
B. Next Academic Year will start from lst September 2A20 and a
detailed academic calendar for Academic Year 2020-2t will be
presented in the next senate.
By the end of July 2020, all the requirements for.final year students will
be completed. Most of the companies have extended the date of joining.
Another round of campus drive for the students to be carried out in the
month of August -SePtember 2024.
Under this exceptional situation of COVID-19, the whole examination
system needs to be revamped. In this regard, the Senate opined that the
end semester examination will be conducted to continue benchmarking
graduation and to be consistent with standard practice to avoid any issue
in the future.
The Senate a
reciated the
landa
roved for i
lementation.
1. Concept note &
Detailed Curriculum
for B.Tech. in
Bioengineering:
The Head (BB) presented the proposal and 'ppraiseC the Senate that
feedbacks have been received from industries, academia, and other
experts of their respective fields and incorporated in the courses. The
Head also appraised that the CII has identified the healthcare sector as
one of the key areas to be taken up for investment. The senate discussed
nward curriculum for existing B'Tech'
the concept note an_q cql!cq|u[-$ Qe!q!j!!-eppl@

2. Concept note for B.Tech. in Electrical Engineering;
The concept note and curriculum was presented by Head (EE) and was
discussed at length. It was briefed that the decision is yet to be taken on
comments received from the experts on the courses proposed by the
department. The senate recommended the department to take
appropriate action on the comments received and make suitable changes
after discussing within the department and present the entire proposal
again in the next senate.
3. Concept note for B.Tech. in Mechanical Engineering
The proposal was presented by the Head (ME).The Head (ME) briefed
that comments received from the experts from academia and industry and
other external members have been incorporated in the courses proposed
by the department. The senate discussed the proposal at length and
admitted the same with the following minor changes:
1) Name of course Machining Science and Metrology to be changed to
Machining Science and Inspection Technology
4. Concept note for 2nd year onwards HSS courses to be offered
for B.Tech. programmes
The concept note and course content was presented by the Head (HSS).
The proposal was deliberated in detail. The senate admitted the proposal.
5. Institute-wide common engineering and science courses from
2nd year onwards for various B.Tech. programmes
The courses were presented to the Senate by AD(UG). The senate
admitted the proposal with the following two minor changes:
1) Name of the course Optical Measurement Techniques to be changed to
Metrology
2) Senate empowered chairman senate to take the final decision on the
title of the course Scientific computation and other necessary changes.
5. Concept note for Minor in Data Science for B.Tech. students
The senate in principal approved the starting of the specialization and
recommended to present a detailed proposal in the next senate after the
inclusion of additional courses and course content of all courses. It was
also suggested to look into course requirements so that students can
build on courses done until the second year to pursue the specialization,
7. Concept note for Interdisciplinary specialization in Quantum
Information and Computation for B.Tech. students
The senate in principal approved starting of the specialization and
recommended to present a detailed proposal in the next senate after the
inclusion of additional courses and course content of all courses. It was
also suggested to IDRP to prepare a detailed institutional strategy to
move forward in this emerging area.

8. Concept note for Interdisciplinary specialization in Robotics for
B.Tech. students
The senate in principal approved the starting of the specialization and
recommended to present a detailed proposal in the next senate after
inclusion of course contents of all courses,
9. Engineering science options for B.Tech. students and Core and
elective courses of capability linked double B.Tech. with a
second degree in engineering science (Updated)
o The Senate discussed the proposal at length in the context of the
recommendations of the IIT council. After a detailed discussion, the
Senate approved the starting of B.Tech. in Engineering Science as
an option to the interested students and the 3-year B,Sc. in
Engineering Science as an exit degree. The Senate requested to
prepare detailed modalities of the programme and present the
same in the upcoming senate for its consideration.
o The Senate approved core and elective courses of Engineering
science programme and empowered the Chairman Senate to add
more courses in the bouquet of electives.
o The Senate also suggested renaming Double B.Tech. as the student
is getting only one degree, i.€., B.Tech. in X + Engineering
science. The Senate empowered the Chairman, Senate to finalize
the name.
In addition to the above senate empowered the chairman senate to
approve any changes in the course contents of courses presented in the
senate.
20.2.3
Proposal for curriculum for new B.Tech. Programme in AI and
Data Science
The concept note was presented by Prof, Mayank Vatsa. It was appraised
that comments were received from both industry and academia and
included in the concept note. He also briefed that the concept note was
appreciated by all reviewers, The senate discussed the concept note in
breadth and approved the same with courses,
20.2.4
Proposed curriculum for new M.Sc, M.B.A, M.Tech., M.Tech.-Ph.D.
Programme to be started from AY 2O2O-21
1. M.Tech, and M.Tech.-Ph.D. dual degree in Chemical Engineering
The Head, Chemical engineering presented the concept note in detail with
the action taken on all the inputs received l,-om external experts. The
scope for specializations was also mentioned.
The senate discussed the concept note at length and approved the same.
Some changes in the courses were suggested. The Senate also authorized
the Chairman, Senate to approve any changes proposed.
n

2. M,Tech. and M.Tech.-Ph.D.dual degree in Infrastructure
Engineering with following specializations;
a. Environmental Engineerino
b. Enerqv
The concept notes were presented by the Associate Dean -PG
programmes and highlighted the uniqueness of the programmes' The AD-
pG also elaborated on the action taken on the external review reports
received from the experts. The career trajectories for each specialization
domain was also outlined with the job prospects.
The senate discussed the concept note in detail and approved the same.
The Senate also authorized the Chairman, Senate to approve any changes
in the course contents if required.
The Head, SME presented the concept note along with the detailed course
contents. The Head mentioned all the possibilities of joint degrees and
dual degrees which will be available as a part of the MBA programme. He
also dislussed all the inputs and suggestions received from academia and
industries, and action taken to update the course contents/courses' The
Head also appraised that the MBA students can take 10 credits from other
departments across the institute and other students can also opt credits
from the MBA.
The Senate approved the proposal with the following suggestions;
1. To explore possibilities of semester exchange of MBA with IIMs
2. The name of the courses should be defined and it should be different
from the courses offered by other departments of the institute.
4. Executive M.Tech. (Integrated Electronics and VLSI Systems)
The concept note was presented by the Associate Dean-PG highlighting
the demand for the programme in the industry. The detailed programme
structure was discussed along with the modalities of synchronized delivery
of the same. The AD-PG also mentioned that the course content will be
presented in the next Senate.
The Senate discussed the proposal and
suggestion that the institute may relook
named as an executive Programme.
approved in-PrinciPallY with a
whether che Programme will be

Courses for ComPrehensive Examinations for registered M'Tech'-
Ph.D. and Ph.D. students
Departments; 
_r-:--, r^^i^^^,i6
Bioscience and Bioengineering, Electrical Engineering, computer scjence
and Engineering, Cn.,i-1ittw, Hrruniiies and Social Science' Mathematics
Mechanical Engineering, Metallurgical and Materials Engineering' Physics
The senate approved the courses for comprehensive examinations for
M.Tech.-ph.D. uno -pn.o. studenis. The senate also empowered the
chairman senate to approve any additional courses for comprehensive
examinatlon from the departments and i-DRPs'
2020 admissions is
as follows:
Program and Branch
B.Tech. in Bioengineering
B.Tech, in Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech. in Electrical Engineering
B.Tech. in Mechanical Engineering
B.Tech. in Materials Engineering
B.Tech. in Chemical Engineering
B.Tech. in Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
B.Tech. in Artificial intelligence and Data Science
@ 
by chairman, senate
hairman' senate'
Ratification ltems

other Item with the
rior permission of the Chairman
Proposed Intake_for pG
l. M.rech ir:l
*_qnd M.Tech.-ph.D.) -
M.Tech
(full-time
regular
with
Fellowshi
p)
M.Tec
h.
(Self-
Spons
ored)
Bioscience 
&
Artificia I Intel lisence
Computer Science and
Eng ineerin
Sensors and Internet
Cyber 
physical
Communication and
Signal Processi
Data & Computational
sciences
Advanced
Manufacturing and
Thermo 
fluids
ineerin
Mechanical Desiqn
Material Enqineerin
Chemical Enqineerin
Infrastructure
Engineering with
specialization in
Environmental
Infrastructu re
Engineering with
specialization in

l2l 
M,sc 
I 
chemistry lral
Is I 
la,sc 
l- 
r.,r;tna*tt; -lro-l
Il 
lEngineeringll
l6l
g.Oa-,r.,on ao,
(Mast"rs. M"rt"t"-phD Dr"! D"or"" and phD) in MEdi"aT-
re+lirolgqies.Acaa zr
l s.ruo l
| 1 
| Master's in Medicat I Smart Heatth I 
iO ---T
I 
|Techno"lgg'es I 
Care 
I 
I
I 
I Medicat Technotogies i 
Care 
t 
I
mMedicat
I 
lTechnotoqies 
I 
Care 
I 
I
S.No
Programme
School
Seats
1
MBA
Management &
Entrepreneurship
68
Chairman, Senate is authorised to approve any minor changes in the number of seats.
The Senate appreciated the tremendous efforts of the faculty members towards
developing the concept notes and courses of different UG and pG programmes. The
senate also congratulated the Director for this mammoth effoft. a
The meeting ended with thanks to all the senate members. 
\A 
n/
ffian_*_u--
Secretary, Senate
Chairman, Senate IIT Jodhpur