SOURCE_PDF: b78d6f463049_Non-Teaching-Staff-Members-Syllabus-IITJ-O_E-II_-2024-25-Non-Academic-Staff-57-63877992.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Syllabus for the post of ASSISTANT WORKSHOP MANAGER
WRITTEN TEST & SKILL TEST
1. Foundry Shop: Understanding of basic steps in casting operation, terminology, process flow; mould
making process and tools; sand testing equipment; working and operation of equipment using in
casting shop; Safety precautions for foundry.
2. Machine Shop: Standard machine tools and their operations; Cutting tools for various machines,
cutting tool materials, tool geometry; Cutting fluids, classification; Grinding machine types and
operations, types of grinding wheels, specifications; Safety precautions for machine shop
3. Assembly Shop: Processes in fitting shop; Equipment; Layout procedure; File work; Thread cutting
tools; Operation and types of chisels, scrapers, dividers, calipers.
4. Welding Shop: Welding processes and equipment; operations of welding machines; selection of
consumables such as electrode, flux, nozzles, gas etc.; types of welds, joints and positions; Safety
precautions for welding
5. Smithy, Forging and Sheet Metal Work: Knowledge of equipment and tools for smithy, forging and
sheet metal work; Operations related to Smithy, forging and sheet metal work; Knowledge of control
parameters to achieve defect-free parts; Safety precautions
6. Metrology: Understanding related to operation and working principles of measuring equipment and
tools used for inspection on shop floor; Knowledge of standards of measurement; Measurement of
Surface roughness
7. Advanced Manufacturing: Understanding related to operation and working principles of advanced
manufacturing and inspection equipment such as CNC Machines, 3-D Printers, Coordinate
Measuring Machine; Knowledge of computational tools for component fabrication; Knowledge of
Programming for component fabrication; Reverse Engineering of components on CMM
8. General Skills: Planning & performing simple repair, overhauling of different machines and
checking functionality, skills to execute pipe joints, dismantling and assembling valves and fittings.
Testing for leakages, planning and performing basic day to day preventive maintenance, safety
aspects, Knowledge of GFR.