SOURCE_PDF: c5a422b4de07_EmpanelmentDocument-638962215305021515.pdf

Notification no. IITJ/LEGAL/2025-26/87
Opening date of application 16.10.2025
Closing date of application 31.10.2025
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
Notification
Sub: - Empanelment of Advocate(s) / Law Firms(s) in IIT Jodhpur
1. 
This notification and application have also been uploaded on the official website
of IIT Jodhpur http://www.iitj.ac.in.
2. 
The applications are invited online in prescribed proforma (as per Annexure-I)
from the Advocate(s) / Law Firm(s) possessing requisite qualifications and experience
(as per Annexure-II), Applications received through email shall only be entertained.
3. 
Eligible candidates must submit the application in prescribed proforma (as per
Annexure - I & II) along with an Undertaking (as per Annexure-III) through email to
registrar@iitj.ac.in and legalcell@iitj.ac.in in clear scanned single PDF format (not in
JPG/JPEG format, etc.) latest by 31st October, 2025.
4. 
The application(s) shall be scrutinized by the Institute.
5. 
Eligibility criteria of Advocate(s)/Law Firm(s) i.e.
(i) The Advocate or representative partner/member of the Law firm shall
possess a professional degree in Law from a recognized University/Institute
and should be enrolled as an Advocate with Bar Council.
(ii) Advocate(s)/Law Firm(s) to be eligible for empanelment shall have active
practice in the respective Court/Tribunals/Forums for at least 05 years at the

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
bar and within the Jurisdiction of the Jodhpur.
(iii) The Advocate(s)/Law Firm(s) must have relevant experience and expertise
in Civil Cases, Criminal Cases, Service Laws, Labour Laws, Taxation
Laws, Consumer Forums, Public Premises & Eviction Laws and other Acts,
Rules and Regulations relating to educational Institutions, Service matters
or otherwise.
(iv) The Advocate(s)/Law Firm(s) should be well versed with the Institutes of
Technology Act, 1961/The Institutes of Technology (Amendment) Act
(2012) and the Statutes, Rules and Regulations framed there under.
(v) Advocate(s)/Law Firm(s) must have adequate infrastructure including
Office, Computer with e-mail facility, well maintained Law journal/library
(vi) Preference shall be given to Advocate(s)/Law Firm(s) having more relevant
experience and having exposure in dealing with matters on behalf of
educational Institute/University.
6. 
IIT Jodhpur shall conduct an interaction/interview/presentation of short-listed
Advocate(s) / Law Firm(s) fulfilling the eligibility criteria.
7. 
In respect of any clarification, the decision of IIT Jodhpur shall be final.
8. 
An Advocate(s) / Law Firm(s) will submit application for empanelment at IIT
Jodhpur. However, final decision for empanelment shall be at the discretion of IIT
9. 
The short-listed candidates shall be intimated on their Email Id for the purpose of
interaction on specific date/s.
10. 
Fees:- Selected Advocate(s)/Law Firm(s) shall be empaneled as the Counsel of
the Institute. Following rates per case shall be paid to them:

S. No. Particulars Matter(s) pertaining
to Junior Advocate Matter(s) pertaining to
Senior Designated
Advocate/Advocate
with 20 years of
Experience
1. Retainership fees Retainership fees -
10,000 No retainership fees will
be paid.
2. Representation fees for
full case 30,000 70,000
3. Preparation of case 5,000 5,000
4. Drafting/pleading and
written submission of
each case 5,000 5,000
5. Conference with Senior
Advocate NA 5,000
6. Filing Caveat 7,000 7,000
7. Written opinion/vetting
of
agreements/MoUs/NDA
& drafting of contracts 3,000 NA
8. Clerkage charges 10% of the total fee 10% of the total fee
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
11. 
i) Supreme Court: The fee for Senior Advocate and Advocate on record shall be
decided mutually at the time of need with the approval of Competent Authority.

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
ii) Special Case: Cases which are important from the point of view of the
institute, the fee payable to Advocate(s)/Law Firm(s) may be fixed mutually
depending on the case, with the approval of Competent Authority.
12. 
Period, termination, resignation and expiry of term:
a. The Advocate(s)/Law Firm(s) shall be empaneled for the period of three
years which may further be extended on yearly basis at the discretion of the
b. The counsel may resign from the empanelment by giving notice of
minimum period of three months.
c. The name of any Advocate/Law Firm may be removed from the panel at
the discretion of the Institute with immediate effect.
13. 
After the approval of committee, the final list of empaneled Advocate(s)/Law
Firm(s) will be prepared and intimated to the concerned.
14. 
The application should reach this office on or before 31st October, 2025, no
application shall be entertained, received beyond the prescribed date.
15. 
It may please be noted that incomplete/unreadable applications, application
submitted in other format and those who do not fulfill the requisite conditions during
interaction/interview/presentation shall summarily be rejected.
Registrar
IIT Jodhpur

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.*
7. Name:
Date of
Birth:
Official
Address:
Residential Address:
Chamber/Office
Address:
PAN-Permanent
Account Number:
E-Mail ID: Affix a latest
photograph self
attested by
Advocate
8. Professional Qualification: -
Degree Year of
Passing Name of University Mark
Percentage
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
1- Application form for Empanelment of Advocate(s) / LawFirm(s)
[To be filled by Advocate(s)/Legal Counsel(s)/Law Firm(s)]

9. Area of Professional Expertise : -
Field / Branch
of
Law Year of
Experience Total No. of Case of
personally
handled as on No. of Successful
disposal
of cases
10. Details of Bar Enrolment: -
10(a) Enrolment No. & Date: Place:
10(b) Name of Partner
applying on
behalf of the firm(s): Enrolment No. &
Date: Place:
11. Professional Association/enrolment in other organization as on date:- (Attached
separate sheet, if required)
Sl.
No. Organizati
on
Name Cas
e
Typ
e From To Total
No. of
cases
allotted,
as
on Total No.
of cases
disposed,
as
on No. of cases
disposed
success
fully
12. Details of succeeded cases: - (Attached separate sheet, if required)
Sl.
No. Organization
name Case No. Court Cause
title Amount
involved Year of Court
verdict
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR

13. Details of Reported cases:- (Attached separate sheet, if required)
Sl.
No. Case
No. Court Cause title Citation details
14. Details of references/Appreciation (if any): -
15. Any other Details: -
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
DECLARATION
I, hereby, solemnly declare that all the statements made in the above 
proforma are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. If 
selected, for empanelment in the Institute, my willingness will not be 
withdrawn.
Signature with seal

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
*List of following documents proof to be attached.
1. Degree Certificate 
2. Enrolment Certificate 
3. Copy of Enrolment Card 
4. Bar Experience certificate issued by Bar Council/Association 
5. Certificate(s)/letter of Professional Association/Enrolment 
6. Copy of reported cases 
7. Letters of References/Appreciations 
8. Copy of PAN card

Sl.
No. Name of the
Advocate/Law
Firm Area of
Expertise Year of
Experien
ce in
Supreme
Court of
India Year of
Experience
in High
Court of
India Year of
Experience
in District
Court of
India Year of
Experience
in
Arbitration
cases Organizatio
n/Clients
for
whom
worked
PROFORMA FOR EXPERIENCE
[To be filled by Advocate(s)/ Legal Counsel(s) Law Firm(s)]
Signature with seal

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
UNDERTAKING
[To be furnished by Advocate(s)/ Legal Counsel(s)/Law
I/We hereby agree to unconditionally accept and agree to all
the terms and conditions of the Expression of Interest for
Empanelment of Advocate(s)/Legal Counsel(s)/Law Firm(s)
without any deviations. I also undertake and understand that
the specified rate(s) for service rendered under the said EoI are
subject to revision from time to time, which shall be
appropriately adhered by me/my Firm.
Self/Authorized Signatory with seal