SOURCE_PDF: c678c1777bec_2025-05-01-68134b00a4c9b-1746094848.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
All India Institute of Medical Sciences Jodhpur
Admission to IIT Jodhpur- AIIMS Jodhpur Joint Programs in Medical Technologies
Masters, Masters-PhD and PhD
Academic Year 2025-26
Masters, PhD and Masters-PhD Dual Degree Programs in Medical Technologies offered 
Jointly by IIT Jodhpur & AIIMS Jodhpur for the Semester commencing from July 2025.
The masters in Medical Technologies and PhD program offered jointly by IIT J and AIIMS 
Jodhpur aims to provide a common platform for doctors and engineers, fostering 
knowledge sharing and innovation, leading to the development of indigenous healthcare 
devices and systems through the process of incubation and entrepreneurship. This 
inherently structured program has been designed to be open and would evolve to create a 
synergy between the skill sets of technologists and medical practitioners. This will also 
create a unique collaborative platform that not only integrates technology and medicine but 
interface them with entrepreneurship, which will enable the participants to venture into a 
complete cycle of IDEATION TO REALIZATION of healthcare technologies, devices and 
systems. To join this unique program on Medical Technologies, applications are invited 
from highly motivated individuals having a distinct flair for interdisciplinary research, 
innovation and the ability to carry it forward to set up startups and industry in the 
healthcare sector. Detailed information about the program can be obtained from the 
website https://www.iitj.ac.in/ or www.aiimsjodhpur.edu.in
A.​ Application Procedure
Applicants are requested to use the following link to fill and submit the application 
form online:
For Masters degree Program:
For Masters-PhD Dual Degree:
For PhD degree Program:
For admission to the 2025-26 First Semester commencing in July 2025, this online link 
will remain active till 13th May 2025.

Applicants are required to pay the processing fee of Rs.300 for Unreserved, GEN-EWS 
and OBC applicants and Rs.150 for SC, ST, and free of charge for women and PwBD 
applicants online while submitting the application form. 
 
In case of any query with respect to the online application, candidates may contact 
erp@iitj.ac.in, deanacademicsjdh@gmail.com, medtech@iitj.ac.in and other general queries 
may 
be 
directed 
to 
coordinator_mmt@iitj.ac.in 
deanacademicsjdh@gmail.com
office_medtechcentre@iitj.ac.in. Also can contact Mobile No. 8963899566 [In office 
hours only 09:00 AM to 05:30 PM (Monday to Friday)]
Applicants shortlisted for the admission process will be required to bring the final 
submitted application form duly signed along with a copy of all educational 
testimonials at the time of admission.
B.​Eligibility for admission
For Master’s and Master’s-PhD Dual Degree Programs
A candidate seeking admission to the Joint Master’s program conducted by IIT Jodhpur 
and AIIMS, Jodhpur must possess at least one of the following qualifications. The 
relaxation for SC/ST/PwD candidates in the qualifying degree marks is as per MHRD 
rules.
A Medical Graduate degree MBBS/BDS with a minimum of 55% of the aggregate marks 
for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC in the main examinations (50 % for SC/ST/PwD)
Or
A bachelor’s degree of minimum four-year duration in engineering or science or 
pharmacy or Nursing or equivalent with at least 60% marks or at least 6.0/10 CPI or 
CGPA for GEN/OBC (55% for SC/ST/PwD).
For PhD Program (Regular)
Candidates admitted in this category shall not be a registered student in any other 
academic program in India or abroad and shall not be a full-time or part-time employee 
of any organization in India or abroad. A candidate seeking admission to the joint PhD 
programme conducted by All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur and IIT 
Jodhpur must possess at least one of the following qualifications:

A degree of Master of Surgery or Doctor of Medicine, or Diplomate of the National Board 
of Examinations (DNB) with 55 % in Bachelor’s degree for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (50 % 
for SC/ST/PwD)
Or
Master’s degree in engineering, pharmacy, Nursing, science, BDS with MDS, BPTh with 
MPTh, BOTh with MOTh or equivalent with at least 60% marks or at least 6.0/10 CPI or 
CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST/PwD)
Admission to PhD (sponsored/Part-time)
Candidates admitted in this category shall not be a registered student in any other 
academic program in India or abroad.  A candidate seeking admission to the Joint 
Master’s program conducted by AIIMS, Jodhpur and IIT Jodhpur must possess at least 
one of the following qualifications. 
  
A degree of Master of Surgery or Doctor of Medicine, or Diplomate of the National Board 
of Examinations (DNB) with 55 % in bachelor’s degree for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (50 % 
for SC/ST/PwD). 
  
Or  
  
Master’s degree in engineering, pharmacy, Nursing, Science, BDS with MDS, BPTh with 
MPTh, BOTh with MOTh or equivalent with at least 60% marks or at least 6.0/10 CPI or 
CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST/PwD)
Essential requirement:
The applicant must have a minimum of two years of work experience (after 
qualifying degree) in Industry/R&D Laboratories/Academic Institutions at the time 
of registration to the program. The applicant must qualify the written test and/or 
interview conducted jointly by IIT Jodhpur and AIIMS Jodhpur. 
 
In-service candidates will also be eligible for Part time PhD.
For medical Faculty:
1.​
Members of the medical faculty who have served in the institute continuously for at 
least 2 years can apply for registration to PhD course as in-service candidate in 
AIIMS Jodhpur.

2.​
The Scientific staff members would be eligible for registration as in-service 
candidate, provided the Head of the Department certifies that the concerned 
scientific staff member has been actively involved in regular teaching & research 
activities of the department during the last 2 years & is likely to continue to be 
actively involved in research at the AIIMS in future.
3.​
The in-service candidates should have at least 2 research publications during the 
preceding 2 years in PubMed indexed/indexed Journal.
4.​
Each case may be examined by a specially constituted ad hoc committee of three 
members under the chairmanship of the Dean before the candidate is permitted to 
be registered for the PhD. The said committee will also decide whether the candidate, 
other than the Medical faculty member, belongs to the scientific cadre. The 
recommendation of the committee will be final.
C.​Eligibility for Financial Assistance
1.​
Financial assistance for Masters Program students
a.​
Full time regular Masters students may be eligible for a monthly stipend in return 
for 8 hours of work per week of Teaching or Research Assistantships.
b.​
For regular dual degree students, financial assistantship/scholarship will be at par 
with regular Ph.D. students.
c.​
The applicant must either have a valid GATE score or be exempted from GATE as per 
MoE circular or have qualified an equivalent National Examination.
Areas where no GATE exam is conducted, there the GATE requirement is exempted. 
However, the candidate has to qualify the written test and /or interview conducted 
jointly by IIT and AIIMS Jodhpur.
2.​
Financial Assistance for PhD program
Candidates admitted to Ph.D. Program (Regular) will be eligible for financial assistance 
as per the following:
(a)​A candidate having a valid GATE/NET (JRF) (or equivalent) can have financial
assistance as per MoE norms/or equivalent applicable for non-science Departments.
(b)​Candidates can avail financial assistance as Project funded JRF, if available. 
(c)​Candidates qualified in any, nationally recognized, Post graduate Medical entrance
(d)​Candidates belonging to ST category having the valid fellowship offer under the
scheme "National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education of ST Students" 
administered by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs.
(e)​The applicant must either have a valid GATE score or exempted from GATE as per

MoE Circular or have qualified an equivalent National Examination.
(f)​ Areas where no GATE exam is conducted, there the GATE requirement is exempted.
However, the candidate has to qualify the written test and /or interview conducted 
jointly by IIT and AIIMS Jodhpur.
Reservation Policy
The norms of reservation for different categories shall be adopted as laid down by the 
Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India.
For further details and updates regarding the program please keep visiting the website.