SOURCE_PDF: c951094770f8_Advertisement-MTech-2026-27-Jan-2026-639056483100968235.pdf

S.N . Department/IDPR Program
1 1 Bioscience and Bioengineering Bioscience and Bioengineering M.Tech. in Bioscience and Bioengineering M.Tech. in Bioscience and Bioengineering
2 Computer Science and
Engineering M.Tech. in Artificial Intelligence
3 Electrical Engineering M.Tech. in Cyber Physical Systems
4 Mathematics M.Tech. in Data and Computational Sciences
5 Mechanical Engineering M.Tech. in Advanced Manufacturing and Design
6 Materials Engineering M.Tech. in Materials Engineering
7 Chemical Engineering M.Tech. in Chemical Engineering
8 Civil and Infrastructure M.Tech. in Environmental Engineering
9 School of Artificial Intelligence
Admission to M.Tech. Degree Programmes, AY 2026-27
Applications are invited for admission to M.Tech. Degree programmes in the AY 2026-2027. 
 
These M.Tech. Degree programmes have been designed to empower students with the 
competencies to handle state-of-the-art technologies in various disciplines, with a 
strong focus on promoting inter-disciplinary innovation.

10 IDRD-Robotics and Mobility
11 IDRD-Quantum Information and
These programmes will admit eligible Full-Time regular candidates with/without assistantships, 
self-sponsored candidates as well as working professionals as part-time/external/full-time 
sponsored candidates. The details of these categories are summarized as follows: 
 
(a) M.Tech. Admissions Categories: A candidate can be admitted in M.Tech. program in any 
one of the following categories:
II.​
Full-time 
Regular 
without 
Assistantship/Fellowship:This 
category 
refers 
to
candidates who will be in campus and who can register for up to full permissible credits 
per semester. A GATE qualified candidate will be admitted under this category 
without financial support. The admitted candidate may be awarded fellowship in the 
subsequent semester based upon availability of financial resources as per the institute 
norms. All candidates admitted under this category, will be paying the same fees as 
applicable to the category Full-time Regular eligible for Assistantship/Fellowship.
IV.​
Full-time Sponsored: This category refers to candidates who will be in campus and 
who can register for up to full credit permissible per semester and is sponsored by 
his/her employer. Sponsorship fees will be notified by the institute.
A.​ Application Procedure: Applicants are requested to use the following link(s) to fill and
submit the application form online:
For Indian- https://erponline.iitj.ac.in/Admission/index?admiss_ch=47 (M.Tech programs) 
For Foreign Nationals - Online link updated soon.
M.Tech. in Robotics
M.Tech. in Quantum Technologies

For admission to the AY 2026-2027 First Semester commencing in July 2026, this online link will 
remain active till 15 April, 2026 (Tentative). 
 
Applicants are required to pay the processing fee of Rs.300 (for one programme) for 
General and OBC applicants and Rs.150 (for one programme) for SC, ST, and PwD 
applicants online while submitting the application form. If any candidate applies for 
more than one programme, the processing fee for each of the programmes will 
automatically be summed. 
 
Candidates are advised to select the appropriate Admission Category strictly as per the 
prescribed eligibility criteria while filling out the application form. Requests for any change in the 
Admission Category will not be entertained at any stage. In the event that a candidate is selected 
for multiple programmes, the candidate must pay the full admission fees for the programme they 
wish to pursue and apply for withdrawal from the previously admitted programme, as per the 
applicable refund rules. 
 
 
For technical assistance related to the online application, applicants may write to erp@iitj.ac.in 
The general queries may be directed to the respective departments the contact details provided in 
Section-J of this Advertisement. However, please note that queries related to eligibility for the 
admission will not be entertained. 
 
Please Note: All qualified applicants, interested to apply for M.Tech. programme under 
the admission category Full-time Regular eligible for Assistantship/Fellowship, should 
register first in the Common Offer Acceptance Portal (COAP). After successful 
completion of registration at COAP 2026, applicants will receive the "COAP Registration 
No.", which is essential to apply online at IIT Jodhpur. The "COAP Registration No." is 
further required for making decisions against admission offers during the time 
windows to be announced on the COAP 2026 portal. Candidates without GATE (i.e 
B.Tech. from CFTIs, part-time, sponsored and external) will be informed directly by the 
concerned Department of IIT Jodhpur. 
 
The admissions to M.Tech. Program is also offered to foreign nationals under different 
schemes administered by Government of India, such as Cultural Exchange Fellowship 
Programme by Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR), Study in India and others. Persons 
interested 
in 
these 
programmes 
are 
required 
to 
apply 
through 
the 
Indian 
High
Commission/Embassy in their respective countries. For general queries, international 
candidates may refer to https://iitj.ac.in/office-of-international-relations 
 
Applicants from Defence Forces may be considered for admission to the external M.Tech. 
programme. Eligibility criteria for applicants from Defence Forces will be the same as that of the 
regular students with an exemption of GATE score. The program will be governed by the 
academic norms of the IITJ. The respective organization has to ensure and undertake the 
responsibility for giving adequate facilities and time to the officer during the Coursework and 
Thesis/Project work.
C. Eligibility for Admission
The eligibility criteria for M.Tech. programs prescribed below are the absolute minimum. The 
general eligibility criteria for admissions is as follows:
(ii) A minimum of 60% marks for GEN/OBC (55% for SC/ST/PwD) category in aggregate or
as specified by the university/institute or a minimum CGPA of 6.0 for GEN/OBC (5.5 for 
SC/ST/PD) category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional 
requirements when the scales are other than on 10 (for example 4.8 for GEN/OBC 
category (4.4 for SC/ST/PwD) on a scale of 8) or a first-class as specified by the

Qualifying Degree GATE Requirements
B.Tech. or B.E. Valid GATE score in XL, BT, BM
B. Tech. from any of the CFTIs with CPI or CGPA
8/10 or above The requirement of valid GATE score is
exempted
Qualifying Degree GATE Requirements
B.Tech or B.E. or BS Program of 4 years (any Branch
of Engineering), M.Sc. (any discipline), M.C.A., M.
Statistics. Valid GATE score (CS/ IT/ EE/ EC/ DA)
B. Tech. or BS Program of 4 years from any branch
of Engineering or M. Statistics, from any of the
CFTI with CPI or CGPA 8/10 or above. The requirement of valid GATE score is
exempted
Qualifying Degree GATE Requirements
B.Tech or B.E. or BS Program of 4 years (Computer
Science and Engineering; Computer Engineering;
Information Technology; Computer Science;
Electronics Engineering; Electrical Engineering;
Communication Engineering; Artificial Intelligence;
or any other degree name involving a combination
of above disciplines), M.Sc. (Computer Science;
Computer Engineering); M.C.A. Valid GATE score (in CS/IT)
B.Tech. or B.E. or BS Program of 4 years from
(Computer Science and Engineering; Computer
Engineering; Information Technology; Computer The requirement of valid GATE
score is exempted
university/institute. The candidates from the CFTI having CGPA/CPI more than 8 
may be given preference.
For Part-time/ Part-time (online)/ External/ Employer Sponsored: The applicant 
must have a minimum of two years of work experience (after qualifying degree) in 
industry/R&D laboratories/Academic Institutions at the time of registration to the 
program. The applicant must qualify the written test and/or interview conducted by IIT 
Jodhpur.
The qualifying degree and GATE requirements (only for Full-time Regular eligible for 
Assistantship/Fellowship and Full-time Regular without Assistantship/Fellowship), specific to 
different M.Tech. programs, can be summarized as follows:

Qualifying Degree GATE Requirements
B. Tech. or B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering) Program of 4
Years in Electrical Engineering/Electronics and
Communication Engineering/ Instrumentation
Engineering/ Computer Science and Engineering or
Equivalent Valid GATE score in EE/EC/ IN/ CS
B.Tech. in Electrical Engineering/ Electronics and
Communication Engineering/ Instrumentation
Engineering/Computer Science and Engineering or
Equivalent from any of the CFTIs with CPI or CGPA
of 8/10
or above The requirement of valid GATE score is
exempted
Qualifying Degree GATE Requirements
B. Tech. or B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering) in
Electrical Engineering/ Electronics and
Communication Engineering Valid GATE score in EC
B. Tech. in Electrical Engineering/
Electronics and Communication
Engineering from any of the CFTIs with
CPI or CGPA of 8/10 or above The requirement of valid GATE score is
exempted
Qualifying Degree GATE Requirements
B.Tech. or B.E. or M.Sc., or equivalent Valid GATE score (Computer Science
and Information Technology, Electronics
and Communication Engineering,
Electrical Engineering, Mathematics,
Statistics, Engineering Sciences & Data
Science & AI )
B. Tech. from any of the CFTIs with CPI or CGPA
8/10 or above The requirement of valid GATE score is
exempted
Qualifying Degree GATE Requirements
B.Tech. or B.E. (Mechanical Engineering, Production Valid GATE score (in Mechanical
Engineering/Aerospace Engineering
/ Production and Industrial

Automobile Engineering, Aeronautical Engineering,
Power plant engineering, Nanotechnology, Materials
Engineering, Instrumentation Engineering) Engineering/ Engineering science)
B. Tech. or B.E. (Mechanical Engineering,
Production Engineering, Industrial Engineering,
Production and Industrial Engineering,
Aerospace Engineering, Mechatronics Engineering,
Applied Mechanics, Automobile Engineering,
Aeronautical Engineering, Power plant
engineering, Nanotechnology, Materials
Engineering, Instrumentation Engineering)
from any of the CFTIs with CPI or CGPA 8/10
or above The requirement of valid GATE score
is exempted
Qualifying Degree GATE Requirements
B.Tech. or B.E. (Mechanical Engineering,
Production Engineering, Industrial
Engineering, Production and Industrial
Engineering, Aerospace Engineering,
Mechatronics Engineering, Applied Mechanics,
Automobile Engineering, Aeronautical
Engineering, Power plant engineering,
Nanotechnology, Materials Engineering,
Instrumentation Engineering) Valid GATE score (in Mechanical
Engineering/Aerospace Engineering /
Production and Industrial
Engineering/ Engineering science)
B.Tech. or B.E. (Mechanical Engineering Production
Engineering, Industrial Engineering,
Production and Industrial Engineering,
Aerospace Engineering, Mechatronics
Engineering, Applied Mechanics, Automobile
Engineering, Aeronautical Engineering, Power
plant engineering, Nanotechnology, Materials
Engineering, Instrumentation Engineering)
from any of the CFTIs with CPI or CGPA 8/10
or above The requirement of valid GATE
score is exempted
Qualifying Degree GATE Requirements
B.Tech. or B.E. or BS Program of 4 years or
equivalent or M.Sc. Valid GATE score (in any discipline)
B. Tech. or B.E. from any of the CFTIs with CPI or
CGPA 8/10 or above The requirement of a valid GATE score
is exempted

Qualifying Degree GATE Requirements
B.Tech. or B.E. or BS Program of 4 years, or
B.Sc.(Engg) Program of 4 years or M.Sc., or
equivalent in Chemical Engineering or allied
discipline Valid GATE score (in any discipline)
B.Tech. (Chemical Engineering or allied discipline)
from any of the CFTIs with CPI or CGPA 8/10 or
above The requirement of valid GATE score is
exempted
Qualifying Degree GATE Requirements
B.Tech./B.E. or equivalent degree in Civil
Engineering or Environmental Engineering Valid GATE score (Civil Engineering /
Environmental Science and
Engineering)
B. Tech. in Civil Engineering or Environmental
Engineering from any of the CFTIs with CPI or CGPA
8/10 or above The requirement of valid GATE score is
exempted
Qualifying Degree GATE Requirements
B.Tech./B.E. or equivalent degree in Civil
Engineering Valid GATE score (Civil Engineering)
B. Tech. in Civil Engineering from any of the CFTIs
with CPI or CGPA 8/10 or above The requirement of valid GATE score is
exempted
Qualifying Degree GATE Requirements
B. Tech. or B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering) Program of 4
years in Mechanical Engineering/ Electrical
Engineering/ Electrical and Communication
Engineering/ Computer Science and Engineering/
Instrumentation and Control Engineering/ Aerospace
Engineering/ Automobile Engineering/ Aeronautical
Engineering, Mechatronics Engineering/ AI & DS or
Equivalent Valid GATE score in Aerospace
Engineering/ Electronics and
Communication Engineering/ Computer
Science and Information Technology/
Electrical Engineering/ Instrumentation
Engineering/ Mechanical Engineering,
Data Science and Artificial Intelligence
B. Tech. in Mechanical Engineering/ Electrical
Engineering/ Electrical and Communication
Engineering/ Computer Science and Engineering/
Instrumentation and Control Engineering/
Aerospace Engineering/ Automobile Engineering/ The requirement of valid GATE Score is
exempted

Qualifying Degree GATE Requirements
B.E./B.Tech./M.Sc./MCA Valid GATE score
B. Tech. from any of the CFTIs
with CPI or CGPA 8/10 or above: The requirement of valid GATE score is
exempted
Qualifying Degree GATE Requirements
B.Tech. or B.E. in Computer Science and
Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Data Science
and Artificial Intelligence, Electronics and
Communication Engineering, Materials Engineering Valid GATE score
B. Tech. or BS Program of 4 years from any branch
of Engineering /Sciences from any of the CFTIs with
CPI or CGPA 8/10 or above. The requirement of valid
GATE core is exempted
Qualifying Degree GATE Requirements
B. Tech. or B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering) in Electrical
Engineering / Electrical and Electronics Engineering /
Electronics Engineering / Electronics and
Communication Engineering / Electronics and
Telecommunication Engineering/Instrumentation
Engineering/Instrumentation and Control
Engineering/Electronics and Instrumentation
Engineering or allied discipline Valid GATE score in EE/EC/IN
B. Tech. or B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering) in Electrical
Engineering/Electrical and Electronics Engineering /
Electronics Engineering/Electronics and
Communication Engineering/Electronics and
Telecommunication Engineering/Instrumentation
Engineering / Electronics and Instrumentation
Engineering/Instrumentation and Control
Engineering or allied discipline from any of the CFTIs
with CPI or CGPA of 8/10
or above The requirement of valid GATE score is
exempted
Qualifying Degree GATE Requirements
B.Tech./B.E. or equivalent degree in Civil Valid GATE score (Civil Engineering)

Engineering ​
B. Tech. in Civil Engineering from any of the CFTIs
with CPI or CGPA 8/10 or above The requirement of valid GATE score is
exempted
Qualifying Degree GATE Requirements
B. Tech. or B.E. in Aerospace/ Aeronautical
Engineering, Mechanical Engineering/ Production
Engineering/ Automobile Engineering/
Mechatronics Engineering/ Electrical Engineering/
Electronics and Communication Engineering/
Instrumentation and Control Engineering Valid GATE score (in Aerospace
Engineering/ Mechanical
Engineering/Production Engineering/
Civil Engineering/ Electronics and
Communication Engineering/
Electrical Engineering/
Instrumentation Engineering.
B. Tech. or B.E. in Aerospace/ Aeronautical
Engineering, Mechanical Engineering/ Production
Engineering/ Automobile Engineering/Mechatronics
Engineering/ Electrical Engineering/ Electronics and
Communication Engineering/ Instrumentation and
Control Engineering from any of the CFTIs with
CPI or CGPA 8/10 or above The requirement of valid GATE score
is exempted.
Milestones Date (Tentative)
Start date of filling online application form 02 Feb 2026
Last date of filling online application form 15 April 2026
D. Financial Assistance
M.Tech. (Full-time Regular eligible for Assistantship/Fellowship) students may be eligible for a 
monthly stipend in return for 8 hours of work per week of Teaching or Research Assistantships as 
per the Institute norms.
Announcement of shortlisted candidates for the admission process 
(Full-time regular without fellowship, Self Sponsored, Full time 
sponsored, Part Time and Part Time (Online)
* The candidates applied for the admission for different M.Tech. programmes under admission 
category Full-time Regular eligible for Assistantship/Fellowship are required to take their 
decisions according to COAP 2026 rounds guidelines.

* List of CFTIs Institute link: https://www.education.gov.in/technical-education-1 
 
* More details about the Academic Regulations of IIT Jodhpur can found HERE
H. Accommodation: Admitted students under various categories may be provided with 
institute hostel accommodation, subject to availability and according to the Institute 
norms amended from time to time.

Department Phone No. Email
Bioscience and Bioengineering Bioscience and Bioengineering 0291-2801202 0291-2801202 office_bioscienceandbioengine
Computer Science and Engineering 0291-2801252 office_cse@iitj.ac.in office_cse@iitj.ac.in
Electrical Engineering 0291-2801352 office_ee@iitj.ac.in
Mathematics 0291-2801452 office_mathematics@iitj.ac.in
Materials Engineering 0291-2801552 office_materials@iitj.ac.in
Mechanical Engineering 0291-2801502 office_me@iitj.ac.in
Chemical Engineering Chemical Engineering 0290-2801702 0290-2801702 office_che@iitj.ac.in office_che@iitj.ac.in
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering 0291-2801652 office_civil@iitj.ac.in
IDRP-Robotics and Mobility Systems IDRP-Robotics and Mobility Systems 0291-2801042 0291-2801042 office_idrp@iitj.ac.in office_idrp@iitj.ac.in
IDRP-Quantum Information & Computation 0291-2801042 office_idrp@iitj.ac.in
School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science 0291-2801752 0291-2801752 office_saide@iitj.ac.in office_saide@iitj.ac.in
I. Important Note on Eligibility and Admission Cancellation
“IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to immediately cancel the admission of any candidate 
at any stage of the admission process or at any stage of the program, if it is found 
that the candidate does not fulfill the prescribed eligibility criteria as per the official 
advertisement or the candidate has provided incorrect/incomplete information in the 
Application Form. The decision of the Institute in such matters will be final and will be 
binding on the candidates. All legal matters shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the 
Competent Court and Forum in Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India only."
J. Whom to contact
In case of any query, the applicants may contact the respective department to which they are 
applying, using the contact information which is listed below: