SOURCE_PDF: ca20a50fe922_Inclusivity-Cell-638785145341252827.pdf

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
INCLUSIVITY CELL

Preamble
We, the fraternity of IIT Jodhpur, join together in a spirit of respect, understanding, and 
commitment to fostering an environment where every individual feels valued, 
supported, and empowered. 
 
We recognize all people's inherent dignity and worth, regardless of their race, ethnicity, 
nationality, gender identity, sexual orientation, age, ability, religion, or any other aspect 
of their identity. 
 
As stewards of inclusivity, we strive to create a space that celebrates diversity and 
champions equity. We acknowledge the importance of actively listening to diverse 
voices, engaging in meaningful dialogue, and advocating for justice and equality for all. 
 
In our pursuit of inclusivity, we commit to challenging bias, discrimination, and 
exclusion wherever they may arise. We embrace the richness of perspectives that 
diversity brings and seek to learn from each other's unique experiences and 
backgrounds. 
 
Through our collective efforts, we aspire to create a culture of belonging where everyone 
feels welcome, respected, and empowered to thrive. Together, we stand as allies and 
advocates, united in our dedication to building a more inclusive and equitable 
community. 
 
With this preamble as our guide, we embark on a journey of continuous learning, 
growth, and action towards a more just and inclusive society for all.

Inclusivity Cell
Introduction 
 
INCLUSION is intricately linked to diversity, equity, accessibility, and belonging.
A diverse, equitable, inclusive, and accessible culture:
• 
Seeks to create a culture with a mix of people from different backgrounds of all 
types (races, sexes, religions, national origins, physical disabilities, sexual 
orientation and gender expression, size, and age).
• 
Commits to fair treatment, access, opportunity, and advancement for all people.
• 
Values every person and their unique approach to the work.
• 
Optimizes for all people, including people with disabilities, to fully and 
independently collaborate and work successfully.
An inclusive culture helps all members of a workplace contribute to a sense of belonging 
and community, promotes a healthier and more empowering work environment and 
teams, respects differences, and optimizes for equal opportunities. This type of culture 
also shares power within teams—and with the public, whose work ultimately benefits. 
 
 
Equality 
 
Equality is the state of being equal, especially in status, rights, and opportunities. 
Equality means each individual or group of people is given the same resources and 
opportunities, regardless of their circumstances. 
 
Promoting equality and valuing diversity is fundamental to the Institute’s core values 
and mission, with the principles of inclusiveness, tolerance, and fairness central to our 
legitimacy as an Institute. The Institute does not accept unfair discrimination or less 
favorable treatment as an employer or in the running of the Institute on the grounds of 
age, 
disability, 
gender 
reassignment, 
marriage/civil 
partnership,
pregnancy/maternity/paternity, race, religion, belief, refugee and asylum seekers (as 
per the Government of India norms), sex, or sexual orientation. 
 
 
Ethical Policy 
 
Having an ethical Institutional policy that provides guidance for employees and other 
internal stakeholders on ethical behaviors can reduce misbehavior in the Institute. 
 
Additionally, a strong ethical culture can help to create a culture of accountability, as 
employees are more likely to be held responsible for their actions when ethics is an 
integral part of the institutional culture, increased employee job satisfaction, affective 
commitment, and willingness to recommend their institution to others.

Implementation of the Government of India Reservation policies / Welfare measures 
 
One of the main objectives of the Inclusivity Cell is to implement the Government of 
India Reservation Policies / Welfare measures for Scheduled Castes (SC) / Scheduled 
Tribes (ST) / Other Backward Class (OBC)/ Persons with Disability (PWD) / 
Economically Weaker Section (EWS) / LGBTQ & other Minority Communities about the 
Admission of Students, the Recruitment of Faculty and Non-faculty positions, and other 
benefits, as applicable.
Scheduled Castes (SC)
Scheduled Castes are those castes/races in the country that are notified as 
Scheduled Castes as per provisions contained in Clause 1 of Article 341 of the 
Constitution. More details are available on the below link:
The Constitution of India has prescribed protection and safeguards for the 
Scheduled Castes (SCs), Scheduled Tribes (STs), and other weaker sections, either 
specially or the way of insisting on their general rights as citizens, with the object 
of promoting their educational and economic interests and removing social 
disabilities. These social groups have also been provided institutionalized 
commitments through the statutory body, the National Commission of SCs. The 
Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment is the nodal Ministry that oversees the 
interests of the Scheduled Castes.
Scheduled Tribes (ST)
The term 'Scheduled Tribes' first appeared in the Constitution of India. Article 366
(25) defined scheduled tribes as "such tribes or tribal communities or parts of or
groups within such tribes or tribal communities as are deemed under Article 342 to
be Scheduled Tribes for the purposes of this constitution". Article 342, reproduced
below, prescribes the procedures to be followed in the specification of scheduled
Other Backward Class (OBC)
The Other Backward Class (OBC) is a collective term used by the Government of 
India to classify educationally or socially backward castes. It is one of several 
official classifications of the population of India, along with General castes, 
Scheduled Castes, and Scheduled Tribes (SCs and STs).
Criteria to identify the portion of the population comprising the “creamy layer” have 
been recommended, including the following:
Children of those with a family income above Rs.8,00,000/- a year should be 
considered creamy layer and excluded from the reservation quota.

The OBC list presented by the National Commission for Backward Classes is 
dynamic (castes and communities can be added or removed) and is subject to change 
from time to time depending on social, educational, and economic factors. For 
example, the OBCs are entitled to 27 % reservations in Public Sector Employment 
and Higher Education. In the Constitution, OBCs are described as ‘socially and 
educationally backward classes,’ and the government is enjoined to ensure their 
social and educational development. 
 
Persons with Disability (PWD) (Divyang; दिव्यांगजन)
The Government of India has enacted the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 
2016, which gives effect to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. 
WHEREAS the United Nations General Assembly adopted its Convention on the
Rights of Persons with Disabilities on the 13th day of December 2006. AND 
WHEREAS the aforesaid Convention lays down the following principles for the 
empowerment of persons with disabilities:
(a) respect for inherent dignity, individual autonomy, including the freedom to 
make one's own choices, and independence of persons;
(c) full and effective participation and inclusion in society;
(d) respect for difference and acceptance of persons with disabilities as part 
of human diversity and humanity;
(e) equality of opportunity;
(g) equality between men and women;
(h) respect for the evolving capacities of children with disabilities and respect for the
right of children with disabilities to preserve their identities.
Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (PwD)
Initiatives are taken by IIT Jodhpur towards empowerment of Persons with 
Disabilities (PwD) to facilitate their participation in all walks of life and enjoy their 
rights equally with dignity and respect:
1. 
IIT Jodhpur is following reservation guidelines for PwD candidates as per 
existing Government of India norms as applicable from time to time.
2. 
An infrastructure support ramp and a railing are provided across the
campus. The ramps are also in the Sports Complex.
3. 
Lifts have been provided for all Academic blocks, Hostel blocks, and 
Campus quarters.
4. 
Medical clinic with well-equipped facilities 24*7 and night duty 
doctors/attendants. Ambulance service is also provided 24*7 for all 
students.
5. 
IIT Jodhpur is encouraging the PwD students to participate actively in 
culture and sports activities and has initiated coaching camps in various 
sports and games.

6. 
The Institute provides hostel accommodations to students with disabilities on
the ground floors for easy access to services and resources in different hostels
located at the IIT campus.
7. 
Ramps, lifts, and separate washrooms are available in all the buildings of 
the Institute for the convenience of students with disability.
8. 
The Student Wellbeing Committee is especially sensitive to the needs of 
students with disability and provides the required psychological support.
9. 
Providing transport facilities for differently abled students.
10. 
Scholarship for Students with Disabilities as per GOI Guidelines.
11. 
The Institute is following the guidelines of the ‘Rights of Persons with 
Disabilities (RPWD) Act, 2016, for the candidates belonging to the PwD 
category, like providing Scribe /compensatory time for examination and 
easy access to classrooms through ramps/lifts, etc.
12. 
The Institute has ramps and lifts for students and employees with 
disabilities in all academic buildings, residential buildings, and student 
hostels.
Also, accessible toilets for disabled persons are available in all the hostels 
and academic buildings. Residential buildings are constructed based on the 
requirements.
Some photos of the facilities that are provided by IITJ to the PwD employees 
and Students:
Ramps
Lifts 
Washroom

13. 
Screen Reader for Visually Impaired Users 
 
The Screen Reader facility in the library of IIT Jodhpur is a significant step 
towards ensuring equal access to information for visually impaired users. This 
technology converts text on the computer screen into speech or Braille, allowing 
visually impaired users to navigate and use the library's resources more 
independently. 
 
The introduction of screen readers not only supports visually impaired users in 
their academic pursuits but also promotes their overall inclusion in the academic 
community. By providing this facility, the library demonstrates its commitment 
to creating an inclusive and accessible environment for all users, regardless of 
their physical abilities. 
 
This initiative aligns with the broader trend of incorporating assistive 
technologies in libraries to enhance accessibility for individuals with disabilities. 
By adopting these technologies, libraries can significantly improve the learning 
experience for visually impaired users and contribute to their academic success.
Economically Weaker Section (EWS)
Persons who are not covered under the scheme of reservation for SCs, STs, and 
OBCs and whose family has a gross annual income below Rs. 8 Lakh (Rupees eight 
lakh only) are to be identified as EWSs for the benefit of reservation. Income shall 
also include income from all sources, i.e., salary, agriculture, business, profession, 
etc., for the financial year prior to the year of application.
1. 
Also, persons whose family owns or possesses any of the following assets 
shall be excluded from being identified as EWS, irrespective of the family 
income: 
a) 
5 acres of agricultural land and above;
b) 
Residential area of 1000 sq. ft. and above;
c) 
Residential plot of 100 sq. yards and above in notified municipalities;
d) 
Residential plots of 200 sq. yards and above in areas other than the 
notified municipalities.
2. 
The property held by a "Family" in different locations or different 
places/cities would be clubbed while applying for the land or property 
holding test to determine EWS status.

3. 
The term "Family" for this purpose will include the person who seeks the 
benefit of reservation, his/her parents, and siblings below the age of 18 
years, as well as his/her spouse and children below the age of 18 years.
LGBTQ
LGBTQ is an umbrella term used to refer to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, 
and queer. LGBTQ people represent a subset of individuals among the broader 
category of sexually and gender-diverse individuals. Sexual orientation, gender 
identity, and expression (SOGIE) is diverse and spans cultures across the world.
The Inclusivity Cell is entrusted to protect the rights of the LGBTQ community. 
 
International Community
The IIT Jodhpur has a vibrant cohort of International Students. IIT Jodhpur 
warmly welcomes the international community from across the globe. The 
existing Office of International Relations promotes and assists candidates in 
pursuing their dreams through education in the Institute's various UG and PG 
programs. The Institute provides opportunities for holistic growth of the 
International Community without any discrimination. Presently, the Institute is 
admitting foreign nationals through the following schemes with opportunities for 
Scholarships:
• 
Study in India (SII) Scheme
• 
Indian Council for Cultural Relations Scholarships (ICCR)
• 
The Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN)
In line with the Government of India Policy, the Inclusivity Cell at IIT Jodhpur has 
been entrusted with the proper implementation and adoption of reservation 
policies and guidelines issued by the Government of India from time to time. The 
Cell deals with grievances from employees and students of SC, ST, OBC, PwD, 
EWS, and LGBTQ Category/community of the Institute. The Cell is also 
responsible for preparing/verifying the report(s) and addressing queries raised by 
the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India, related to the students and employees of the 
above categories of the Institute.
The inclusivity Cell at IIT Jodhpur is committed to implementing the above-
mentioned policies of the Ministry of Education and the Govt. of India effectively 
to achieve comprehensive inclusion and diversity.
IIT Jodhpur follows the reservation norms of Govt. of India for candidates under 
the SC, ST, OBC, PwD, and EWS categories for admission in all UG and PG 
programs. The Institute provides 
the relaxation in eligibility criteria and
application fees to SC, ST, and PwD candidates at the time of admission. The PwD 
students are exempted from paying the Tuition Fee. IIT Jodhpur participates in 
preparatory courses for one year for SC, ST, and PwD candidates who applied for 
undergraduate courses in IITs. On successful completion of the course, the 
students are offered direct admission to the already allocated undergraduate

course the next year.
Further, to help students with academic deficiencies, especially SC, ST, and PwD 
Students, the following support mechanisms are created:
• There is a provision for academic probation for students with academic
deficiency. A student placed on probation shall be monitored, including 
mandatory attendance in classes, special tutorials, and mentoring. Mentoring 
would comprise structured guidance under a senior student.
• These students can get B.Tech./B.Sc. in Engineering Science after completing the
credit requirements as an exit degree for those with academic deficiency.
• Relaxation in minimum requirement on credits earned for continuation in a
• Relaxation in CGPA for branch change 
• Language support: Language is an important axis for inclusion/exclusion. The
Institute is committed to providing language training to students who need it. 
For non-Hindi speakers (Indian and foreign) on campus, providing Hindi 
language support.
Fee remission is applicable for UG students as per the Ministry of Education, 
Govt. of India guidelines as given below:
1. SC, ST & PwD are eligible to get a full Tuition fee waiver. 
2. Economically Weaker Section (EWS) Students (whose family income is less than
Rs. 1 lakh per annum) are eligible for full fee remission.
3. The other economically backward students (whose family income is between
Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 5 lakhs per annum) shall get remission of 2/3rd of the fee.
4. Various scholarship details are available on the below link:
Recruitment Initiatives
• 
The Institute invites applications to meet the Reservation Policy as per the 
requirement through Special Recruitment Drives for Teaching and Non-
Teaching positions.
• 
The Institute seeks applications from foreign nationals for positions at 
different academic grade levels as per the approved policy by the Board of 
Governors, IIT Jodhpur.
Anti-Discrimination Policy
The Anti-Discrimination Policy emphasizes creating a safe and inclusive workplace by 
preventing discrimination based on protected characteristics. It details the behaviors 
considered discriminatory and the actions taken against such behaviors, promotes 
fairness, equality, and positive work culture, and ensures all stakeholders of the Institute 
are treated with respect and dignity, regardless of their background or identity.
Employees who harass their colleagues will go through the Institute's disciplinary 
process, and the Institute may reprimand, demote, or terminate them depending on the 
severity of their offense.

advantage is that it ensures that the Institute maintains positive employee relations.
Anti-Harassment Policy 
 
The Anti-harassment policy emphasizes a commitment to a harassment-free 
environment. It prohibits intimidation, humiliation, sabotage, and discrimination based 
on various factors. 
 
The anti-harassment policy expresses the Institute’s commitment to maintaining a 
workplace that’s free of harassment so the employees can feel safe and happy. The 
Institute does not tolerate anyone intimidating, humiliating, or sabotaging others in the 
workplace. The Institute also prohibits willful discrimination based on age, sexual 
orientation, ethnicity, race, religion, or disability. 
 
This anti-harassment policy, including sexual harassment, applies to all Institute 
stakeholders. Harassment includes bullying, intimidation, direct insults, malicious 
gossip, and victimization. 
 
The consequences for violating the policy can vary based on the severity and frequency 
of the offense. They can range from counseling sessions to educate the offender about 
their behavior, written reprimands added to their personnel file, suspensions without 
pay, or even termination in severe cases. 
 
 
Internal Complaints Committee (ICC)
Grievance Redressal Mechanism
IIT Jodhpur has a robust Grievances Redressal mechanism to address all types of 
grievances, complaints, and malpractices, including those received from Students, 
Faculty, and other Stakeholders of the Institute.

Conduct for students and will suggest suitable action in case of its violation. In case of
Disciplinary Committee
A student shall invite disciplinary action from the Institute if he/she violates the Code 
of Conduct; the actions may include reprimand, disciplinary probation, fine, debarring 
from examinations, withdrawal of scholarship and/or placement services, withholding 
of grades and/or degrees, cancellation of registration, and even expulsion from the 
Institute.