SOURCE_PDF: cc101e9bd30b_FAQ_Ex_MTech_AI_update-121223.pdf

FAQs for PG Admission Executive M.Tech. AI (for
working professionals) 2023 | CSE, IIT Jodhpur
Q1. Does an Executive M.Tech. in Artificial Intelligence from IIT Jodhpur
hold equal value & status as a Full-time M.Tech. From IIT Jodhpur?
Q2. After completing the program, does a student get IIT Jodhpur Alumni
Q3. Do students of this program also get campus placements?
Answer: No, since this is a program for working professionals.
Q4. What will be the syllabus of the written exam?
Answer: GATE 2023 syllabus for Computer Science and Information Technology
will be followed for the written exam.
Q5. What is the fee to be paid?
Answer: Rs. 7500 per credit.
Q6.What is the minimum attendance percentage required?
Answer: As per the institute policy.
Q7. After the completion of the course, will there be any convocation?

Q8.What will be the duration of course?
Answer: Usually 3-4 years. It is a credit based course, hence the duration
depends upon the credits taken in each semester. Total credit requirement is 62
which can be completed in a minimum of three years (6 semesters) and
maximum of five years (10 semesters).
Q9. What are the courses that will be taught? Will these courses be taught
by IITJ faculties?
Answer: Please visit the following website for a tentative list of courses under
Executive M.Tech. AI https://cse.iitj.ac.in/Ex-MTech-AI.html
Courses will be taught by IITJ faculty members. Some sessions in courses
sometimes full courses are offered by domain experts from other reputed
institutes and industries.
Q10. Can I opt for elective courses? What elective courses are offered in
this program?
Answer: Please visit the following website for a list of electives which may be
Offered as part of this programme: https://cse.iitj.ac.in/Ex-MTech-AI.html
Q11. Will I be eligible for a PhD Admission after completing this MTech

Q12. Is there any scholarship available for this program?
Q13: I have a payment related query. Whom shall I contact?
Answer: Please contact: oa_automation@iitj.ac.in
Q14: I have a related query to Executive M.Tech. AI. Whom shall I contact?
Answer: Please contact: mtech_wp_ai@iitj.ac.in
Q15. If after two semesters I need a gap due to personal reasons or something
else can I shift my next semester?
Answer: Yes, the program is designed to allow candidates to choose their pace.
Q16. What will be the difference between a regular MTech AI Program & Executive
MTech AI program?
Answer: The mode of teaching (Online vs Classroom teaching). The syllabus and credit
requirements will be the same. Further, the duration of the program is different. This is
because the executive program is for working professionals who cannot commit the
same work hours as our full-time students.
Q17. As it's an Executive MTech Program, So If for some reason I leave the Job is
it going to affect this Program if I leave my job?
Answer: No. You can still continue this program.
Q18. I have a query regarding the total time period of the program. How many
semesters one has to complete bare minimum to get the MTech.
Answer: This is a self-paced program. However, you would need minimum 6 semesters
to finish the program.

Q19. Can Internship be shown as work experience?
Q20. Can the degree certificate be submitted for government jobs?
Q21. I am interested in pursuing this program. However, I would like to know the
syllabus and/or course content before signing up for the same. Answer: Please
visit : https://cse.iitj.ac.in/Ex-MTech-AI.html
Q22. I have done my graduation/AMIE from The Institution of Engineers (IE
INDIA). Is that allowed for admission?
Q23. Will hostel accommodation be provided for outstation candidates from
different states?
Answer: During campus visit in contact hours, paid accommodation may be made
Q24. I am from Electrical & Electronics. Will I be able to cope up with Artificial
Intelligence? What is the syllabus? Do I need to learn coding? What would be the
extent of it ?
Answer: Good programming skills are important for this course. Further, being good in
Mathematics helps.
Q 25. What if I plan to discontinue the program after completing a few courses?
Answer: You will be given a course completion certificate upon request for the courses
which you would have completed.
Q26. Would the outcome of the course be suited for people who want to develop
AI related businesses? Would this help someone in pursuing a career in tech

Companies on the business side or is it suited for people who want to pursue a
career in the technical and programming areas?
Answer: The syllabus is more inclined towards the technology side.
Q27. How rigorous is this course and how many hours of studying and project
work beyond lecture time would it need every week/month approximately?
Answer: A unit of credit equates to three hours of student work per week. That means if
you register for 9 credits, you are expected to work 27 hours a week including 9 hours
of lectures.
Q28. Tell me a tentative plan of credit selection so that I can complete this
Program in three years.
Answer: Semester - 1: 10 credits
Semester - 2: 10 credits
Semester - 3: 11 credits (including 2 non-graded credits)
Semester - 4: 11 credits (including 2 non-graded credits)
Semester - 5: 10 credits (including 5 thesis credits)
Semester - 6: 10 thesis credits
Total: 62 credits
If you plan to complete it at a slow pace, say in 4 years by taking lesser credits per
semester, then that will be allowed from semester - 2.
Q29. How many lectures per course per semester will be there?
Answer: 42 hours of lectures per course per semester.
Q30. How long is a typical semester?
Answer: Around 4 months.

Q31. What are the other documents required for admission?
Answer: A selected applicant will need to submit a no objection certificate from the
current employer (only if currently employed), a physical fitness certificate, and a
character certificate by either the current employer or a gazetted officer. These
documents are required only at the time of admission and not at the time of application.
The formats for these documents will be sent to the selected candidates.