SOURCE_PDF: cc7838502ed8_updated-ICNAAO2025-638929225120259627.pdf

Department of Mathematics
Organized by
IIT Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India, 342030
In collaboration with
CMS-NAO Wing

IIT Jodhpur is located in the town of Jodhpur, which is 
situated in the Jodhpur district of the Indian state of 
Rajasthan. Jodhpur, known as the "Blue City" and "Sun City," 
is a historic and vibrant city in Rajasthan, India, famous for 
the imposing Mehrangarh Fort overlooking a maze of 
blue-painted houses in its old town. Founded in 1459 by Rao 
Jodha, this former capital of the Marwar kingdom is now a 
major tourist destination celebrated for its unique culture, 
architecture, cuisine, and strategic location in the Thar 
Desert, serving as a gateway to the region.
ABOUT THE CITY
Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Jodhpur was established 
in 2008, to foster technology education and research in 
India. The Institute is committed to technological thought 
and action to beneﬁt the economic development of India. 
The Institute is committed to multidisciplinary approach of 
technology development. Hence, it has established 
state-of-the-art laboratories for basic and applied research 
and has organized its academic degree activities through 
departments and its coordinated research through Centers 
for Technologies.
ABOUT IIT JODHPUR
The Department of Mathematics is dedicated to advancing 
the ﬁelds of pure mathematics, applied mathematics and 
statistics. Our vision is to emphasize both the fundamental 
principles of core mathematics and the foundational 
concepts essential for analyzing key principles applied in 
cutting-edge technologies. The department also aimed to 
explore modern aspects of mathematics coupled with 
computational 
capabilities 
to 
develop 
a 
workforce 
specialized in mathematical aspects of key technologies. 
Currently, we oﬀer various programmes, namely, a two-year 
M.Sc. program in Mathematics, a four-year M.Sc-M.Tech 
program in Mathematics-Data and Computational Sciences, 
a two year M.Tech program in Data and Computational 
Sciences, and Ph.D.
ABOUT THE DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICS

ABOUT THE CONFERENCE
TOPICS
PUBLISHING PARTNERS
The Conference ICNAAO is in its 5th edition this year. The 
objective of the conference is to motivate and equip the 
participants with the recent state-of-art of mathematical 
optimization, nonlinear analysis, ﬁxed point theory, 
dynamical systems, fractals, applications to diﬀerential/ 
integral equations and to signal & image processing, 
machine learning, soft computing as well as to expose the 
young talents with the newer dimensions in these areas 
with their practical approaches to tackle the real life 
problems in engineering, medical and social sciences.
Selected high quality articles will be published in the 
special issue of SCI/Scopus Indexed reputed journals.
Linear and Non-linear 
Optimization
Fixed Point Theory
Nonlinear Analysis
Fractals
Dynamical Systems
Mathematical Modelling
Soft Computing
Variational Inequalities
and analysis
Novel Application
of optimization
Set-valued Optimization
Combinatorial Optimization
Optimization algorithms 
and Applications
Bilevel Programming
Heuristics and Metaheuristics 
Multiobjective Optimization
Optimization for Machine 
Learning
Optimization 
for Sustainability
Optimization and Learning 
under uncertainty
Multiobjective Optimization

Conference Dates 4-6 December 2025
Abstract Submission 30 September 2025
Notfii catoi n of Acceptance 10 October 2025
Registratoi n Open(atet ndee) 5 September 2025
Registratoi n Open (presenter) 10 October 2025
Early bird registratoi n close 30 October 2025
Regular Registratoi n close 10 November 2025
Indian # Foreigner #
Partci ipants from Indian
Academia/ R&D Labs Rs 6000 USD 300
Partci ipants from Industry Rs. 8000 USD 350
Students (Paper presenter) Rs. 4000* USD 200*
Students (Atet ndee) Rs. 3000* USD 150*
Faculty / Researchers / Scientist from academic / 
technical institutions / industries and R&D Centers. 
Postdoctoral / Ph.D. students from various institutes, 
universities, colleges, research organization.
IMPORTANT DATES
REGISTRATION FEES
•
* Early bird will enjoy a discount in registration charges 
of Rs. 1000/- for Indian participant and USD 50 for 
International Participant
•
# Additional 18% GST will be paid by the participant

Patron
Prof. Avinash Kumar Agarwal
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Honorary Chairs
Prof. Tanmoy Som, IIT BHU, India (Coordinator 
CMS-NAO wing)
Prof. D. R. Sahu, BHU, India
Organizing Chair
Dr. VVMS Chandramouli,
Head, Department of Mathematics, IITJ
Convenor
Dr. Kuntal Som, IITJ
Organizing Committee
Dr. MAT Ansary, IITJ
Prof. Gaurav Bhatnagar, IITJ
Dr. Kirankumar R Hiremath, IITJ
Dr. Dilpreet Kaur, IITJ
Dr. Pankaj Gautam, IIT Roorkeee
Dr. Tuhina Mukherjee, IITJ
Dr. Sukhendu Ghosh, IITJ
Advisory Committee
Prof. V. Vetrivel, IITM, India
Prof. Joydeep Dutta, IITK, India
Prof. Geetanjali Panda, IIT KGP, India
Prof. Akhtar A Khan, RIT, USA
Prof. Markus Grasmair, NTNU, Norway
Prof. K.S. Mallikarjun Rao, IIT Bombay, India
Prof. D.K. Ganguly, BC (CU), India (VP, CMS)
Prof. Arindam Bhattacharya, JU, India (Secretary, CMS)
Prof. B.S. Choudhury, IIEST Shibpur, India (CMS)
Prof. Indrajit Lahiri, KU, VC-NSOU, India (President CMS)

CALL FOR PAPERS & PUBLICATIONS
The abstract in the speciﬁc format (available on the 
conference site) should be sent through the Google form:
Selected High quality papers will be published in the 
special issue of SCI/ SCOPUS indexed reputed journal
For the updates and other information, please visit the
conference website:
Dr. Kuntal Som
Convener, ICNAAO-2025
Phone No: 0291 280 1474
Email: icnaao2025@iitj.ac.in
Department of Mathematics
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Rajasthan, India, 342030
CONTACT