SOURCE_PDF: ccfe658ac1b5_PG-M-Tech-Intelligent-VLSI-Systems-638763381905785233.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
M. Tech. Program
in
Intelligent VLSI Systems

Curriculum Structure
for AY 2023-24 Onwards

Introduction
The proposed M.Tech program in Intelligent VLSI Systems is designed to provide training to
graduate students with the state of the art knowledge in the domain of VLSI Systems, including
semiconductor fundamentals, emerging devices and compact modelling, advanced circuits and
systems, system on chip design, signal processing, on-chip machine learning algorithms, VLSI
for communication and others. The proposed M. Tech programme for Intelligent VLSI Systems
of IIT Jodhpur includes state of the art analog and digital VLSI circuits and systems, mixed
signal
circuits,
testing
and verification algorithms, issues with system integration for
performance considerations, covering wide aspects of embedded and computing systems, and
emerging applications. It will cover a wide aspect of fundamentals, design skills, hands on
through experiential learning consisting of lab exercises, assignments, case studies and current
trends in the semiconductor industry.
Objectives
Main objective of this program is to train students by imparting them skills related to the current
era of VLSI systems with a deeper understanding of its various components: from devices to
hardware design. By imparting extensive knowledge and research experience, the program
focuses on novel approaches to processing and computation for energy- and memory-efficient
hardware. With the availability of massive data acquisition and data processing, the current
research and trend in future computing systems is oriented towards memory-driven and edge
computing AI architectures.
The graduates will eventually be contributing to all-encompassing areas of Intelligent VLSI
Systems which include emerging semiconductor devices and modelling, analog & mixed-signal
circuits,
RF
integrated
circuits
(ICs), ASIC and SoC Design, embedded intelligence,
self-adaptive systems, flexible electronics, neuromorphic computing, hardware for AI, state of
the art non-volatile memories, machine learning, 5G communication, Internet of things (IoT) and
others. The course will rigorously train the graduate students so as to enable them to take up
new challenges and solve the problems in the domain of the current and future VLSI systems.
The knowledge of theoretical concepts with in depth analysis and understanding of practical
design issues will make their understanding more refined and result oriented in the areas of next
generation VLSI systems.
Various state of the art computational facilities are available in the institute like NVIDIA DGX2
which will help the candidates to learn high performance computing, to implement machine
learning algorithms and learn the concepts of data analysis. The students will have access to
various design/EDA tools like Cadence Virtuoso, Mentor Graphics, Synopsys tool suite etc.
The objectives of this program are summarised as follows:
●
Insight of semiconductor device physics, modelling and fabrication.
●
Theoretical as well as practical knowledge of circuits and systems
●
System Design issues and challenges
●
Embedded Intelligence
●
Machine learning algorithms, signal processing and data acquisition

●
Algorithm level and architectural level optimization and implementation
●
State-of-the art system design methodologies as well as current trends in the
semiconductor industry
●
Brain-Inspired Technologies
●
Novel approaches to processing and computation for energy and memory-efficient
hardware
●
Development of testing and verification skills through state of the art algorithms
●
Exposure to layout, floorplanning, placement and routing techniques
●
High speed system design issues and performance considerations
Graduate attributes
●
Ability to follow a multidisciplinary approach for design and implementation of
systems, involving various domains of Engineering, and Sciences.
●
To learn top-to-bottom approach for IC design
●
Exposure to computing for embedded intelligent systems
●
To learn machine learning tool and its application in domains like VLSI for signal
processing and communication
●
To apply the skills and course aspects directly in the profession
●
Exposure to design issues and challenges in ASIC and SoC Design
●
Exposure to system level integration and challenges including packaging and PCB
related issues
Learning outcomes
●
Ability to design digital, analog, mixed signal circuits
●
Knowledge of ASIC flow for IC fabrication and tape out
●
Exposure to state-of-the-art compact models, process and IC fabrication technology
●
Implementation of intelligence in traditional VLSI systems/architectures
●
Knowledge of VLSI design flow covering both front end and back end.
●
Knowledge of programming, algorithms and system development techniques
●
Knowledge of state of the art non-volatile memories
●
Able to design and implement algorithms for optimising hardware
●
Knowledge of complete system integration and challenges associated with high
speed designs

Topic Clouds and Course Mapping

Category M. Tech. Core
(MC) M. Tech. Elective
(ME) M. Tech. Open
(MO) M. Tech. Project
(MP) Non-graded
(NG) Total
Credits 20 16 6 16 4 62
Cat. Course Title L-T-P C Cat. Course Title L-T-P C
I Semester II Semester
MC Digital VLSI Design 3-0-0 3 MC Hardware Design for
Artificial Intelligence 3-0-0 3
MC Digital ASIC Design lab 0-0-2 1 MC Mixed Signal Circuit Design 3-0-0 3
MC Physics and Modelling of MOS
Transistors 3-0-0 3 MC SoC Testing and
Verification 3-0-0 3
MC Analog IC Design 3-0-2 4
ME Program Elective(s) 3 ME Program Elective(s) 6
NG Technical Communication 1-0-0 1 NG Innovation and IP
Management 1-0-0 1
Total 15 Total 16
III Semester IV Semester
ME Program Elective(s) 5 MO Open Elective-2 3-0-0 3
MO Open Elective-1 3-0-0 3 ME Program Elective(s) 2
NG System Engineering and Project
Management 1-0-0 1 NG Professional Ethics 1-0-0 1
Total 15 Total 16
Program Structure for M.Tech Intelligent VLSI Systems (IVS)
Overall Program Structure
Semester wise distribution of credits

Course Title L-T-P Credits Course Title L-T-P Credits
VLSI Broadband
Communication Circuits 3-0-0 3 High Speed Interfaces 2-0-0 2
Semiconductor Reliability 3-0-0 3 Network-on-Chip 2-0-0 2
Hardware-Software Co-design 3-0-2 4 Machine Learning for Device
Modeling 1-0-2 2
Sensors and Measurement 3-0-0 3 RF IC Design 1-0-2 2
Neuromorphic Computing and Design 3-0-0 3 Formal Verification 2-0-0 2
Integrated Circuit Technology 3-0-0 3 Signal and Power Integrity 3-0-0 3
ML in VLSI CAD 3-0-0 3 Processor Design 3-0-0 3
High Level Synthesis 3-0-0 3 Introduction to Spintronics 3-0-3 3
Embedded System Design 3-0-0 3 Low Power IC Design 2-0-0 2
Machine Learning 1 3-0-0 3 Power Management IC 2-0-0 2
Deep Learning 3-0-0 3 Non-Volatile Memory
Technologies 2-0-0 2
Nanosensors 3-0-0 3 In-memory Computing 2-0-0 2
Variability Analysis of Integrated
Circuits 1-0-0 1 Optimization in VLSI Systems 2-0-0 2
Resource Constrained AI 3-0-0 3 Flexible and Printed
Electronics 3-0-0 3
Electromagnetic Interference in ICs 1-0-0 1 Quantum Nanoelectronics 3-0-0 3
IC Fabrication lab 0-0-2 1 Machine Learning for
Communication 3-0-0 3
List of Program Electives