SOURCE_PDF: d301a29455eb_Curriculum-MTechMTech-PhDPhD-CSEAY2021Onwards.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Course Booklet
for
and
Dual degree M.Tech. (CSE) + PhD
Programs
offered by the
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
July 2021

Introduction:
Traditionally Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) teaching were focusing on two major areas,
i.e., theories and systems (database, computer hardware, and operating systems). With the advent
of the era of Cloud Computing, Edge Computing, AI and Big Data, the discipline is being transformed
by incorporation of new emerging technologies. It is becoming an instrumental tool in solving major
problems faced by modern society such as energy, natural disasters, pollution, and water. Through
this newly revamped M.Tech and M.Tech-Ph.D dual degree programs in CSE, IIT Jodhpur is making a
conscious effort to divulge from the traditional path and planning to reposition itself to become a
leading institute in this new genre of Computer Science education.
Objectives:
This M.Tech and M.Tech-Ph.D dual degree programs in CSE will offer students with deep knowledge
of core and applied computer science. Through this programme, a student will learn niche subject
areas which are of paramount importance in the modern big data era, such as Computer Systems
and Security. This programme is aiming at imparting the necessary breadth and depth to the
students for pursuing careers in academics as well as in industry. This programme is aiming at
extending undergraduate computing skills with up-to-date and in-depth expertise in specialized
areas of Computer Systems and Security.
Expected Graduate Attributes:
After completing this programme, a student will be able to develop an ability to:
1.
Understand fundamental concepts and hands-on knowledge of emerging fields in Computer
Science.
2.
Conceive, Design and Develop state-of-the-art scalable parallel and distributed systems
3.
Solve Big data problems through the knowledge of advanced data structures, distributed
algorithmic design, analysis, and applications.
4.
Design and develop network protocols for Wireless, Sensor, Mobile, and Vehicular networks.
5.
Ideate, Implement and Integrate cryptographic, fault tolerant algorithms for large scale
distributed systems
6.
Understand state-of-the-art hardware platforms for running compute intensive distributed
algorithms
7.
Ability to understand and apply evolving ethics and privacy laws across various domains and
territories.
8.
Plan and manage technical projects
Learning Outcome:
1.
Understand the fundamentals of algorithmic complexity, advanced computer architecture,
advanced network, and security protocols.
2.
Apply appropriate design principles, framework and protocols to develop dependable systems.
3.
Demonstrate hands-on knowledge of cutting edge simulation, synthesizing, programming tools.
4.
Ability to design and develop system architecture for mobile, cloud, fog, and edge computing.
5.
Demonstrate hands-on knowledge of virtualization, data center design and management, and
software defined networking.
6.
Skills to comprehend and communicate effectively.
7.
Apply appropriate project and business management principles and tools for real-world
problems.

Cat Code Course Title L-T-P Cr Cat Code Course Title L-T-P Cr
Semester I Semester II
C MAL7xx0 Statistical Inference
Matrix Theory
Constrained
Optimization 1-0-0
1-0-0
1-0-0 3 C CSL7xx0 Software and Data Engineering 3-0-0 3
C CSL7xx0 Advanced Data
Structures and
Algorithms 3-0-0 3 C CSL7xx0 Core Bucket: Security and its
Applications, Algorithms for Big
Data, Computer Networks:
Protocols and Applications 3-0-0 3
C CSL7xx0 Machine Learning 3-0-0 3 C CSL7xx0 Computer Architecture 3-0-0 3
PE xxxxx Program Elective 1 3-0-0 3 PE xxxxx Program Elective 3 3-0-0 3
PE xxxxx Program Elective 2 3-0-0 3 OE xxxxx Open Elective 1 3-0-0 3
NG Technical
Communication 1-0-0 1 NG xxxxx Ethics and Professional Life 1-0-0 1
Total Credits: 16 Total Credits: 16
Cat Code Course Title L-T-P Cr Cat Code Course Title L-T-P Cr
Semester III Semester IV
P CSD7xx0 Major Project – Part 1 0-0-10 5 P CSD8xx0 Major Project – Part 2 0-0-22 11
PE xxxxx Program Elective 4 3-0-0 3 PE xxxxx Program Elective 6 3-0-0 3
PE xxxxx Program Elective 5 3-0-0 3 NG xxxxx Intellectual Property 1-0-0 1
OE xxxxx Open Elective - 2 3-0-0 3
NG xxxxx System Engineering and
Project Management 1-0-0 1
Total Credits: 15 Total Credits: 15
Credit Distribution **List of Prescriptive Electives
1 Program Core 18 credits 1 Linear algebra for data science
2 Program Electives 18 credits 2 Statistics for Data Science
3 Open Electives 6 credits
4 Project 16 credits
5 Non-graded 4 credits
Total 62 credits
Course Structure for the
M.Tech. (CSE) Program and
Dual Degree M.Tech. (CSE)+Ph.D. Program
*Maths Fractals: Linear Algebra, Probability and Random Processes, Optimization
*The students should have satisfactory performance in the course in order to be eligible for internships and
placements opportunities from the institute.
**Depending on the background of students, courses from the prescriptive electives can be recommended for
students by the DRC.

5G Mobile Networks
Advanced Computer Graphics
Advanced Computer Networks
Advanced Human Machine Interface
Advanced Operating Systems
Advanced Biometrics
Ad hoc Wireless Networks
Artifciial Intelligence
Advance Artifciial Intelligence
Algorithms for Big Data
Approximation Algorithms
Bio-image Computing
Blockchain
Computer Graphics
Computer Vision
Computational Optimization
Compiler Design
Computational Social Choice Theory
Computer Network Protocols and Applications
Crowd-sourcing and human computing
Cryptography
Data Visualization
Deep Learning
Dependable AI
Digital Image Analysis
Digital System Testing
Distributed Database Systems
DL-Ops
Edge and Fog Computing
Environmental Informatics
Embedded Systems Epidemiology
Coding Theory
Compressive Sensing
Computational Imaging
Data Compression
Data Communication and Networking
Digital Twin
Digital Video Processing
Digital VLSI Design
Embedded System Design
Embedded System Design Lab
High-level Synthesis Introduction to Cyber Physical S
Introduction to Haptics
Introduction to IoT Systems
Mathematical Modelling and Simulation
Information Theory and Applications
Real Time Communications
Real time systems
Sensors and Measurement
Introduction to Smart Grid
Speech and Audio Signal Processing
Statistical Decision Theory
Wireless Communication
Program Electives for M.Tech. (CSE) and
Dual Degree M.Tech. (CSE)+Ph.D. Program

Bioinformatics Computational Biology
Computational Game Theory
Advanced topics in Computational PDE
Linear algebra for data science
Statistical Techniques
Numerical Linear Algebra Dynamical Systems
Stochastic Processes
Representation of Finite Groups
Statistics for Data Science
Unconstrained Optimization
Quantum Computing
Quantum Information Processing Quantum Cryptography and Coding
Analysis of Social Media Networks Human Factors in Interaction Design
Algorithms in Biology TeleMedicine