SOURCE_PDF: d32286f5b3ce_Abstract-Conceptualization-of-negotiation-and-wisdom-affect-the-negotiation-process.pdf

Different conceptualizations of negotiation and wisdom by males and females affect the
negotiation process
Prarthana Saikia
School of Liberal Arts
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur, India
Negotiation is an everyday phenomenon. Often there are arguments that women negotiate 
differently than male. However, negotiating differently does not make them bad negotiators. 
Wisdom, on the other hand, is about having multiple perspectives, contextual adaptability, 
perspective-taking, and knowing one's limitations (Grossmann et al., 2020). If women 
negotiate to keep context and others' perspectives and look for the benefits of both parties while 
negotiating, can they be termed wise negotiators? This study aims to find the difference in the 
conceptualization of negotiation among gender and how they negotiate. In the present research, 
we collected implicit data from 100 participants (50 males and 50 females) and asked their 
opinion about negotiation, wisdom, and how they negotiate. Participants have also filled up 
self accessed wisdom scale and had to go through some negotiation dilemmas. Both qualitative 
and quantitative method was used to analyze the data. Responses were analyzed through 
content analysis, and superficially there was not much difference found in the way males and 
females conceptualize negotiation and wisdom and how they negotiate. However, with a deeper 
look into the analysis, it was found that while negotiating, males concentrate on winning the 
negotiation themselves 50% more than females. In contrast, the female conceptualization of 
wisdom has inclusivity of context or situations 50% more than males. Conceptualization of 
wisdom in women other than the context also includes morality, fairness, the balance of 
outcome between self and other parties, unbiasedness, and perspective-taking. Whereas for 
males, only contextual factor was dominant. Also, with the interest of self and others in the 
negotiation, there is a significant difference of p<0.01 among the gender. There is a difference 
in the way women and men approach negotiation. Thus, keeping this difference in context, 
there is a need to develop new ways to find ways to measure success in negotiation. Profit 
cannot be the sole target for the outcome of social negotiations.
Keywords: wisdom, negotiation, gender, content analysis