SOURCE_PDF: d9f0dbdd2189_FFE-Scholarship-Programme-638766150672993960.pdf

Course Category and States Maximum Eligible
Rank
For Students joining IITs, NITs and Institutes/States (Madhya Pradesh, Haryana,
Odisha, Uttarakhand and Nagaland) where admission is based on the JEE (Main) Rank
(Overall All India General/Common Merit Rank – Not Category Rank) 90,000
For students joining IITs, the additional eligibility criteria will be the Cut off Rank, at
the JEE (Advanced) - General Category 20000
Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka 6000
Kerala, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, Odisha, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Bihar 3000
Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, Jammu & Kashmir,
Assam, Chandigarh, Goa 1000
Sikkim, Tripura, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Daman & Diu, Manipur,
Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands 500
FOUNDATION FOR EXCELLENCE INDIA TRUST
No. 840, “MHT House”, First Floor, 5th Main,
Indiranagar First Stage, Bengaluru – 560038. 
 Tel: 080-2520 1925
Nurturing Brilliance * Transforming Generations www.ffe.org
27 June 2023
Scholarship Policy for the Academic Year 2023-24
Academic Excellence, Family Income Eligibility Criteria and Other Requirements
Academic Excellence Criteria
1. Only the professional degree courses BE/B Tech, Integrated 5-Yr Dual-Degree M Tech, MBBS, BPharm
and 5-Yr Integrated Law courses are eligible for scholarships. All other courses, including Diploma 
students admitted directly to their 2nd Year of BE/B Tech on a lateral basis, as well as, B Arch, BDS and 
BSc (Nursing) students, are not eligible.
2. Only those new, first-time students who are beginning their 1st year of study in the academic year 2023-
24, are eligible. Applicants already in their 2nd year of study (or above) are not eligible.
3. The applicants should have passed their Class XII qualifying examination (Higher Secondary/Pre-
university/Intermediate/CBSE/ISC or equivalent board) in 2021, 2022 or 2023. However, students who 
have passed their qualifying examination in 2023 will be preferred over those who have taken a break 
for preparation and better performance in their common entrance tests.
4. The applicants’ admissions to their professional degree courses should be on the basis of their
open/general merit rank (and not category rank) at the state or national level entrance tests or through a 
counselling process conducted at the state level (as with Tamil Nadu) as per the following table.
5. The rank limits are based on the seat intake capacities of the various states as authorized by the All-India
Council for Technical Education (AICTE) for Engineering/Technology (BE/ B Tech) and Pharmacy 
(BPharm) degrees and the Medical Council of India (MCI) for Medical (MBBS) degree.
6. The rank limit for the 5-Yr Integrated Law courses is based on the entrance examination as defined by
the University.
7. Candidates with 40% or more disability pursuing Professional courses as mentioned above, will be
considered for Scholarship.
Maximum Eligible Ranks for Entrants to Professional Courses in AY 2023-24

Course Category and States Maximum Eligible
Rank
Applicants admitted based on NEET
(Overall, All India General/Common Merit Rank – Not Category Rank) 40000
Course Category and States Maximum Eligible
Rank
Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana 2,000
Gujarat, Karnataka, Punjab, Kerala, West Bengal, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Orissa, Tamil
Nadu, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Bihar, North-East and Chhattisgarh 1,000
Delhi, Goa, Jharkhand, Puducherry, Jammu & Kashmir and Chandigarh 800
Course Category and States Maximum Eligible
Rank
CLAT [22 NLU Colleges], MH CET Law [Maharashtra] 3,000
Calcutta University BA LLB [West Bengal] 1,000
AP LAWCET [Andhra Pradesh], ILSAT [ICFAI Law Schools in 4 states] 800
TS LAWCET (Telangana), KLEE (Kerala), SLAT (Symbiosis University) 500
AMU law (Aligarh Muslim University, UP) 200
RULET (Rajasthan University, LSAT India (LSAC Global Law Alliance & LSAT
India Affiliated Colleges 2022), AILET (NLU Delhi), CUSAT (Cochin University),
ULSAT (UPES, Dehradun) 150
FOUNDATION FOR EXCELLENCE INDIA TRUST
No. 840, “MHT House”, First Floor, 5th Main,
Indiranagar First Stage, Bengaluru – 560038. 
 Tel: 080-2520 1925
Nurturing Brilliance * Transforming Generations www.ffe.org
Family Income Criteria
1. The gross annual family income limit is Rs. 3,00,000 per year. Gross income refers to the income before
deductions for taxes or other purposes.
2. In addition to gross family income, the education and occupation of the parent(s)/guardians, the family’s
living conditions, and the total expenses being incurred by the family on the applicant’s education will be 
taken into consideration for determining the financial eligibility of an applicant.
3. Applicants who are the first graduates of the family will be preferred over applicants who are the second
or third child of the family taking up graduation.
Income Declaration
4. Where parent(s)/guardian(s) of applicants are employees, a salary/pay slip from the employer is
The salary/pay slip should clearly show the family member’s gross monthly salary with full details of 
his/her basic salary and all allowances and deductions. The employer and the Facilitator should certify the 
salary/pay slip. Submission of an Income Certificate from a local or other government authority in lieu of 
a salary/pay slip is not acceptable.
5. Where parent(s)/guardian(s) are retirees/pensioners, a recent pension statement from the pension authority
and/or a copy of the bank statement issued by the pension disbursing bank showing the gross monthly 
pension being credited to the pensioner’s account in the past three/four months, is required. Pensioners

FOUNDATION FOR EXCELLENCE INDIA TRUST
No. 840, “MHT House”, First Floor, 5th Main,
Indiranagar First Stage, Bengaluru – 560038. 
 Tel: 080-2520 1925
Nurturing Brilliance * Transforming Generations www.ffe.org
should also provide documents to show the official status or designation, gross salary drawn at the time of 
retirement and the name of the employing organization. If the parent/guardian has recently retired under a 
voluntary retirement scheme, reasons for retirement, and amount of lump sum benefits received on 
retirement should also be disclosed.
6. Where parent(s)/guardian(s) are in business or self-employed, income certificate issued by any
government authority or income tax return should be submitted in support of the gross family income 
specified in the application. Specific details of the nature and size of the business or self-employment 
should also be provided.
7. Where parent(s)/guardian(s) are agriculturists or have farming or cultivation as their source of income, an
income certificate from the Government authority should be submitted Details of the nature and size of 
the land holding, crops grown, etc. wet or dry land irrigation should also be provided. There is no 
requirement for submission of an income declaration or affidavit on stamp paper.
Documentation Requirements
The student will be required to upload the following set of documents in their Eligible application 
immediately after filling their application form. Only the following Primary documents are mandatory for 
the verification call.
Primary Documents
1. Income certificate/Salary slip or Income tax return or bank statement of the parent. 
2. Class twelfth (XII) grade cards issued by the SSC/ISC/CBSE board. 
3. The Rank Certificate stating the rank scored by the student in the Entrance examination. 
4. The counselling letter issued to the student during the seat allotment process. 
5. Receipts for actual expenses already incurred for the academic year up to the date of submission of
the application.
6. Applicant should upload his/her E-Aadhar in the application for KYC verification. The same will be
deleted once the KYC verification is successful.
Secondary Documents
7. Applicants for scholarships must submit a “Bonafide Certificate” issued from the college
authorities in the current academic year, establishing their status as a student for the specified course 
and year.
8. Applicants must provide a “Statement of Estimated Expenses or Fee Structure document” for the
current academic year. The statement should be issued by the college authorities. Mere statements by 
students about their own estimated expenses are not acceptable.
9. Parent Declaration duly signed by parents which informs the parents about the scholarship received
by their wards.
10. Student bank passbook copy indicating the Account number, IFSC code and other bank details. If the
student is minor, then Joint account with any one parent will only be accepted.
11. Differently abled students should submit their disability certificate issued by the State or district level
certifying authority.
Scholarship Amount
Every year the Foundation receives a large number of applications. Only those applicants who are 
eligible by the academic criteria & background verification will be awarded financial assistance. The 
final decision on the selection of deserving students rests with the Foundation. 
Students applying for their 1st Year of Scholarship in the FY 2023-24 will receive a Scholarship amount 
of INR 50,000 & Renewal students will receive INR 40,000, which can be utilized towards their 
education expenses.
Guidelines for Facilitators
1. For the academic year 2023-24, the online mode of verification which is a 3-way video conference will be
conducted between the Facilitator, Student, Parents & FFE Coordinator.

FOUNDATION FOR EXCELLENCE INDIA TRUST
No. 840, “MHT House”, First Floor, 5th Main,
Indiranagar First Stage, Bengaluru – 560038. 
 Tel: 080-2520 1925
Nurturing Brilliance * Transforming Generations www.ffe.org
2. Scholarships should be recommended to students only after the Facilitators have verified and are
convinced about the academic eligibility and financial need of the applicant and the student’s family.
3. Facilitators should verify the primary documents electronically. Attestation is NOT required. 
4. Facilitators should explain the Applicant oath and pledge clearly during the verification call. 
5. Facilitators are performing a voluntary service on behalf of the Foundation. They should not seek any
compensation, whatsoever, from the student(s)/parents. The entire scholarship amount must go only to 
the students.
6. Facilitators should not submit applications on behalf of their own children or relatives or on behalf of
children/relatives of other Facilitators or Coordinators.
7. Facilitators should not interchange students among themselves without prior intimation to the
8. Facilitators can recommend students for Scholarship, but the student will be verified independently.
9. Students who are eligible for and who have applied for Tuition Fee Waiver from the Government or for
financial assistance/aid/scholarship/grant from any other organization/agency/source (other than FFE) 
because of their socio-economic background or students who have another elder/younger brother/sister 
who, has received in the past/is still receiving/is applying for the first time this year, for an FFE 
scholarship, should truthfully provide full information about such aid received/applied for by them. Such 
disclosure does not make students ineligible for receiving a scholarship from FFE. In the past, students 
have had to be denied scholarships for hiding such facts, which have come to FFE’s knowledge later.
10. If Facilitators have any doubts about an applicant’s eligibility, they may seek prior confirmation from
FFE. The contact details of the scholarship team are provided below.
11. All applications must be filled in English only. Similarly, all supporting documents must also be in
English. Where a document is in a vernacular language, its English translation must also accompany the 
vernacular document.
12. Renewal students have been instructed to call their Facilitator at least twice or more times each year.
The student is expected to enter the details of the call date in the renewal application. When this is 
completed, a notification mail and/or text message will be sent to the facilitator. You are requested to 
confirm the accuracy of the call/visit through email or call to the FFE Office.
Deadline for Online Submissions of Scholarship Applications 
 
The Last date for the Online Submissions of New, First Time Applications for this year, is 31st December 
2023. 
 
Email: ffefacilitator@ffe.org 
Office Landline: (080) 2520 1925 & (080) 4204 2654 
 
Scholarship Team Contact details: 
 
Shubha Biradar (M): 86185 90754 
Padmashri (M): 99000 76284 
Sharadha Lakshmi (M): 99000 76283 
Triveni (M): 88615 01155