SOURCE_PDF: db6a0cbc4c02_curriculumn-638887974562391565.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Executive M. Tech. Program
in
Intelligent VLSI Systems

Curriculum Structure
for AY 2022-23 Onwards

Introduction
The proposed M.Tech program in Intelligent VLSI Systems is designed to provide working
professionals with the state of the art knowledge in the domain of VLSI Systems, including
semiconductor fundamentals, emerging devices and compact modelling, advanced circuits and
systems, system on chip design, signal processing, on-chip machine learning algorithms, VLSI
for
communication
and
others.
The
program
is
planned
to
be
in
synchronous/asynchronous/campus immersion mode, and is open to all working professionals.
The proposed Executive M. Tech programme for Intelligent VLSI Systems of IIT Jodhpur
includes state of the art analog and digital VLSI circuits and systems, mixed signal circuits,
testing
and
verification
algorithms,
issues
with
system
integration
for
performance
considerations, covering wide aspects of embedded and computing systems, and emerging
applications. It will cover a wide aspect of fundamentals, design skills, hands on through
physical/hybrid/online mode and current trends in the industry. It will lead the professionals to
learn without a career break with classes conducted on weekends/weekdays evening in the
synchronised mode. The education delivery methodology combines classroom and experiential
learning. Experiential learning consists of lab exercises, assignments, case studies and work
integrated activities.
Objectives
Main objective of this program is to upskill the working professionals by exposing them to the
current era of VLSI systems with a deeper understanding of its various components: from
devices to hardware design. By imparting extensive knowledge, the program focuses on novel
approaches to processing and computation for energy- and memory-efficient hardware. With the
availability of massive data acquisition and data processing, the current research and trend in
future computing systems is oriented towards memory-driven and edge computing AI
architectures. The other main objective of the program is to enable the graduates to innovate and
to apply the gained knowledge in their working environment.
The graduates will eventually be contributing to all-encompassing areas of Intelligent VLSI
Systems which include emerging semiconductor devices and modelling, analog & mixed-signal
circuits,
RF
integrated
circuits
(ICs), ASIC and SoC Design, embedded intelligence,
self-adaptive systems, flexible electronics, neuromorphic computing, hardware for AI, state of
the art non-volatile memories, machine learning, 5G communication, Internet of things (IoT) and
others. The course will rigorously train the professional graduates so as to enable them to take
up new challenges and solve the problems in the domain of the current and future VLSI systems.
The knowledge of theoretical concepts with in depth analysis and understanding of practical
design issues will make their profession more refined and result oriented in the areas of next
generation VLSI systems.
Various state of the art computational facilities are available in the institute like NVIDIA DGX2
which will help the candidates to learn high performance computing, to implement machine
learning algorithms and learn the concepts of data analysis. Further, the candidates will also have
access to various design/EDA tools like Cadence Virtuoso, Mentor Graphics, Synopsys etc for
academic purposes only.

For cost intensive technology related hands-on sessions, the candidates are encouraged to avail
the facilities of IITJ during their mandatory two weeks contact visit to IITJ per semester. The
programme will run through synchronised learning platforms, will use a continuous evaluation
system that will assess the learners over convenient and regular intervals. Such a system provides
timely and frequent feedback and helps busy working professionals stay on course with the
programme. Participants who successfully complete the programme will become members of an
elite & global community of IIT Jodhpur Alumni.
The objectives of this program are summarised as follows:
●
Insight of semiconductor device physics, modelling and fabrication.
●
Theoretical as well as practical knowledge of circuits and systems
●
System Design issues and challenges
●
Embedded Intelligence
●
Machine learning algorithms, signal processing and data acquisition
●
Algorithm level and architectural level optimization and implementation
●
State-of-the art system design methodologies as well as current trends in the
industry
●
Brain-Inspired Technologies
●
Novel approaches to processing and computation for energy and memory-efficient
hardware
●
Development of testing and verification skills through state of the art algorithms
●
Exposure to layout, floorplanning, placement and routing techniques
●
High speed system design issues and performance considerations
Graduate attributes
●
Ability to follow a multidisciplinary approach for design and implementation of
systems, involving various domains of Engineering, and Sciences.
●
To learn top-to-bottom approach for IC design
●
Exposure to computing for embedded intelligent systems
●
To learn machine learning tool and its application in domains like VLSI for signal
processing and communication
●
To apply the skills and course aspects directly in the profession and working
environment
●
Exposure to design issues and challenges in ASIC and SoC Design
●
Exposure to system level integration and challenges including packaging and PCB
related issues
Learning outcomes
●
Implement and development of own SPICE compact model for circuit simulations
●
Exposure to state-of-the-art compact models, process and IC fabrication technology
●
Ability to design digital, analog, mixed signal circuits
●
Knowledge of ASIC flow for IC fabrication and tape out
●
Knowledge of programming, algorithms and system development techniques
●
Knowledge of state of the art non-volatile memories
●
Able to design and implement algorithms for optimising hardware

●
Knowledge of system integration and challenges associated with high speed
designs
●
Knowledge of VLSI design flow covering both front end and back end.
Topic Clouds and Course Mapping

Category M.Tech.
Compulsory (MC) M. Tech.
Elective (ME) M. Tech.
Open (MO) M. Tech.
Project (MP) Non Graded
(NG) Total
Credits 20 16 6 16 4 62
Cat. Course Title L-T-P GC Cat. Course Title L-T-P GC.
I Semester II Semester
MC Digital VLSI
Design 3-0-0 3 MC From Core Bouquet
Courses 3
MC Analog IC Design 3-0-2 4 MC Hardware for
Artificial Intelligence 3-0-0 3
MC Physics and
Modelling of MOS
Transistors 3-0-0 3 ME Program Elective - 1 3-0-0 3
MC IC Design lab 0-0-2 1 NG Technical
Communication 1-0-0 1
III Semester IV Semester
MC From Core Bouquet
Courses 3 ME Program Elective -3 3-0-0 3
ME Program Elective- 2 3-0-0 3 ME Program Elective- 4 2-0-0 2
MO Open Elective - 1 3-0-0 3 MP Project – 1 0-0-4 4
NG Innovation and IP
Management 1-0-0 1 NG Systems Engineering
and Project
Management 1-0-0 1
Total GC + NC 10 Total GC + NC 10
V Semester VI Semester
ME Program Elective- 5 3-0-0 3 MP Project- 3 0-0-8 8

MO Open Elective - 2 3-0-0 3 ME Program Elective-6 2-0-0 2
MP Project - 2 0-0-4 4
NG Ethics and
Professional Life 1-0-0 1
S. No. Course Name L-T-P Credits
1 Digital VLSI Design 3-0-0 3
2 Analog IC Design 3-0-2 4
3 Physics and Modelling
of MOS Transistors 3-0-0 3
4 Hardware for Artificial
Intelligence 3-0-0 3
5 IC Design lab 0-0-2 1
S. No. Course Name L-T-P Credits
1 ML in VLSI CAD 3-0-0 3
2 Processor Design 3-0-0 3
3 Mixed Signal Circuit Design 3-0-0 3
4 VLSI Broadband
Communication Circuits 3-0-0 3
List of Compulsory Core Courses:
List of Core Bouquet Courses (Students need to select any one CB):

Course Title L-T-P Credits
High Level Synthesis 3-0-0 3
Power Management IC 2-0-0 2
Resource Constrained AI 3-0-0 3
Neuromorphic Computing and
Design 3-0-0 3
Formal Verification 2-0-0 2
RF IC Design 3-0-0 3
Embedded System Design 3-0-0 3
In-memory Computing 1-0-0 1
Machine Learning for
Communication 3-0-0 3
Signal and Power Integrity 3-0-0 3
Machine Learning 3-0-0 3
Deep Learning 3-0-0 3
Optimization in VLSI Systems 2-0-0 2
Hardware Software Co-Design 3-0-2 4
Electromagnetic Interference in ICs 1-0-0 1
Introduction to Spintronics 3-0-0 3
Low Power IC Design 2-0-0 2
High Speed Interfaces 2-0-0 2
Flexible and Printed Electronics 3-0-0 3
Non-Volatile Memory Technologies 2-0-0 2
Quantum Nanoelectronics 3-0-0 3
List of Programme Elective Courses

Variability Analysis of Integrated
Circuits 1-0-0 1
Integrated Circuit Technology 3-0-0 3
Sensors and Measurement 3-0-0 3
Semiconductor Reliability 3-0-0 3
SoC Testing and Verification 3-0-0 3
Selected Topics in VLSI Systems-I 1-0-0 1
Selected Topics in VLSI Systems-II 2-0-0 2
Selected Topics in VLSI Systems-III 3-0-0 3