SOURCE_URL: https://iitj.ac.in/Main/en/Life-@-IIT-Jodhpur

Q1.	How is the Campus Life at IIT Jodhpur? IIT Jodhpur is located on the outskirts of Jodhpur city at NH 65, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur 342037, in its sprawling 852 acres campus. While many Faculty Members, Officers, and Students reside on this campus, some Faculty and Staff Members opt to stay in the city in private accommodation.
 	
Activities like cultural programs, celebration of national festivals, workshops of general nature bring together the Faculty and Staff members along with their families and students. The campus also houses “The Jodhpur Club”, which was started on 26 January 2015 with a purpose of building cultural relations with the Academic and R&D Organizations in the Sun City. It serves as a backdrop for organizing various activities that pave way for cultural interaction among not only the employees of different organizations but also their families. The employees of IIT Jodhpur and their family members use this platform to come together to fulfil their other-than professional interests (like art and music). Q2.	What are the facilities available in the Academic Campus of IIT Jodhpur? The campus of IIT Jodhpur is divided by NH 65 into Pocket A and Pocket B. The Academic Area amd Residential Areas of the Institute are located in Pocket A. The Academic Area consists of the Main Building, which houses all the administrative offices of the Institute, The Learning Hub, i.e., the Lirbary of the Institute, the Lecture Hall Building, Laboratories, and the Department Buildings.
 	The First Building of IIT Jodhpur, which is also known as the Project Building is located in Pocket B. Presently Kendriya Vidyalaya, IIT Jodhpur runs from that building. Q3.	What are the laboratory and research facilities? The Institute's Laboratories aim to develop innovative solutions to the technological challenges of India. To accomplish its academic and research goals, IIT Jodhpur endeavors to enhance its academic and research efforts through creative collaborations with some prominent institutes/universities in India and abroad. IIT Jodhpur has established state-of-the-art teaching and research laboratories. These advanced laboratories have machinery and devices of international standard, which are actively used in research. Q4.	What about Library? The Learning Hub, i.e., the Library is an active partner in teaching, learning and research activities of the Institute. It has a collection of more than 12,000 volumes of books (includes textbooks, research and reference books, and monographs). In addition, the Library provides access to a range of electronic resources, such as American Society for Mechanical Engineers, Institute for Electrical & Electronics Engineers, and Association for Computing Machinery. Also, it subscribes to popular scientific, research and archival databases, like JSTOR. The Library operates in a computerized environment with Automated Member and Circulation Services. Currently, memberships, circulation, reference & information service, inter library loans & document lending services, current awareness service, and digital library service, are some of the important services offered. Visit the Library Website for more information. Q5.	What facilities are available in and around the residential campuses of IIT Jodhpur? The Institute has arranged formally (through public tender process) for vendors to provide for the following services: (1)	ATM & Bank: The residential area has a branch of State Bank of India (SBI) as well as an ATM of SBI enabling the residents to make transactions with ease. (3)	Gymnasium: A modest Gymnasium facility is operational in each Student Hostel. (4)	Dining Facility: The Institute has arranged for a vendor, who provides for healthy and hygienic food to Students in the Dining Hall located near the Hostels. Both vegetarian and non-vegetarian options are available, made in two separate kitchens. (5)	Food Court & Restaurant: There is a Food Court & Restaurant on 3rd Floor, Dining Hall Building that provides hygienic food, fresh juices and various other snacks. (6) 	Laundry Service: A laundry service is operational from the Himalaya West Berm 5 (Barrels 4 and 5). For the Students, the service is at a fixed cost for unlimited clothes for the 9 months of the two semesters, and at cost for each dress item for the rest of the vacation months. And, for the other residents, the charges are per dress item. (7)	Shopping Center: A modest Shopping Center is operational on the Permanent Campus. Currently, it has a Grocery Shop, Stationery Store, Vegetable & Fruits Shop, Milk Parlour (Amul), Ladies Beauty Parlour, and Gents Salon. The Shopping Center operates from 08:00–18:00 in The Jaisalmer Club. (8)	Transport Services: The Institute has a bus service running between the Institute and various places in the City of Jodhpur at regular intervals. (9)	Primary Health Care: An ISO 9001:2005 Certified Primary Health Center is fully operational on the Permanent Campus, and this service is provided by M/s Goyal Hospital and Research Center Private Limited, Jodhpur. It has both Out-Patient and In-Patient services with a panel of Medical Officers and Para Medical Staff available on duty round the clock. The basic laboratory tests and physiotherapy facilities are provided here. Also, an instrumented ambulance is on waiting round the clock for special service needed in the Secondary and Tertiary Hospitals in the city of Jodhpur. Besides, weekly visits of specialist doctors are arranged in the Primary Health Center. Currently, the facility runs in 3111 and 3114, Street 3, Park Avenue. Besides the Health Center, the Institute has empanelled six hospitals in the city of Jodhpur, namely: ASG Eye Hospital Goyal Hospital & Research Centre Kamla Nagar Hospital Medipulse Hospital Vasan Eye Care Hospital Vasundhara Hospital. Two of these hospitals have specializations in ophthalmology, one in orthopedic, one in gynaecology and obstetrics and the remaining three hospitals are the best known general purpose hospitals in the city. For specialized medical attention, doctors at our Health Center refer patients to one of these hospitals. In addition to these six hospitals, the city has a Medical College and three hospitals run by Government of Rajasthan. Also, the city has an All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Jodhpur. Besides, there is Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Ayurved University, which runs academic programs and a hospital, in our neighbourhood. Also, the Institute has constituted a Medical Board consisting of Senior Doctors from the Medical College and the AIIMS; advice is taken for enhancement of medical services of the Health Centers, and in critical medical cases further, IIT Jodhpur has empaneled two hospitals in Jaipur. These two hospitals are accredited by National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare, and patients can be referred to these hospitals as per the need of the treatment. (10)	School: The Institute is poised to start a Kendriya Vidyalaya on its Campus. It has become operational on 6 October 2017 from the Project Office Building in Pocket B. The school will move to its final spot, as soon as the School Building is completed in Pocket C (as part of Phase 2 Development of the Permanent Campus).
Q1.	How is the Campus Life at IIT Jodhpur?
IIT Jodhpur is located on the outskirts of Jodhpur city at NH 65, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur 342037, in its sprawling 852 acres campus. While many Faculty Members, Officers, and Students reside on this campus, some Faculty and Staff Members opt to stay in the city in private accommodation.
 	
Activities like cultural programs, celebration of national festivals, workshops of general nature bring together the Faculty and Staff members along with their families and students. The campus also houses “The Jodhpur Club”, which was started on 26 January 2015 with a purpose of building cultural relations with the Academic and R&D Organizations in the Sun City. It serves as a backdrop for organizing various activities that pave way for cultural interaction among not only the employees of different organizations but also their families. The employees of IIT Jodhpur and their family members use this platform to come together to fulfil their other-than professional interests (like art and music).
Q2.	What are the facilities available in the Academic Campus of IIT Jodhpur?
The campus of IIT Jodhpur is divided by NH 65 into Pocket A and Pocket B. The Academic Area amd Residential Areas of the Institute are located in Pocket A. The Academic Area consists of the Main Building, which houses all the administrative offices of the Institute, The Learning Hub, i.e., the Lirbary of the Institute, the Lecture Hall Building, Laboratories, and the Department Buildings.
 	The First Building of IIT Jodhpur, which is also known as the Project Building is located in Pocket B. Presently Kendriya Vidyalaya, IIT Jodhpur runs from that building.
Q3.	What are the laboratory and research facilities?
The Institute's Laboratories aim to develop innovative solutions to the technological challenges of India. To accomplish its academic and research goals, IIT Jodhpur endeavors to enhance its academic and research efforts through creative collaborations with some prominent institutes/universities in India and abroad. IIT Jodhpur has established state-of-the-art teaching and research laboratories. These advanced laboratories have machinery and devices of international standard, which are actively used in research.
Q4.	What about Library?
The Learning Hub, i.e., the Library is an active partner in teaching, learning and research activities of the Institute. It has a collection of more than 12,000 volumes of books (includes textbooks, research and reference books, and monographs). In addition, the Library provides access to a range of electronic resources, such as American Society for Mechanical Engineers, Institute for Electrical & Electronics Engineers, and Association for Computing Machinery. Also, it subscribes to popular scientific, research and archival databases, like JSTOR. The Library operates in a computerized environment with Automated Member and Circulation Services. Currently, memberships, circulation, reference & information service, inter library loans & document lending services, current awareness service, and digital library service, are some of the important services offered. Visit the Library Website for more information.
Q5.	What facilities are available in and around the residential campuses of IIT Jodhpur?
The Institute has arranged formally (through public tender process) for vendors to provide for the following services:
(1)	ATM & Bank: The residential area has a branch of State Bank of India (SBI) as well as an ATM of SBI enabling the residents to make transactions with ease.
(3)	Gymnasium: A modest Gymnasium facility is operational in each Student Hostel.
(4)	Dining Facility: The Institute has arranged for a vendor, who provides for healthy and hygienic food to Students in the Dining Hall located near the Hostels. Both vegetarian and non-vegetarian options are available, made in two separate kitchens.
(5)	Food Court & Restaurant: There is a Food Court & Restaurant on 3rd Floor, Dining Hall Building that provides hygienic food, fresh juices and various other snacks.
(6) 	Laundry Service: A laundry service is operational from the Himalaya West Berm 5 (Barrels 4 and 5). For the Students, the service is at a fixed cost for unlimited clothes for the 9 months of the two semesters, and at cost for each dress item for the rest of the vacation months. And, for the other residents, the charges are per dress item.
(7)	Shopping Center: A modest Shopping Center is operational on the Permanent Campus. Currently, it has a Grocery Shop, Stationery Store, Vegetable & Fruits Shop, Milk Parlour (Amul), Ladies Beauty Parlour, and Gents Salon. The Shopping Center operates from 08:00–18:00 in The Jaisalmer Club.
(8)	Transport Services: The Institute has a bus service running between the Institute and various places in the City of Jodhpur at regular intervals.
(9)	Primary Health Care: An ISO 9001:2005 Certified Primary Health Center is fully operational on the Permanent Campus, and this service is provided by M/s Goyal Hospital and Research Center Private Limited, Jodhpur. It has both Out-Patient and In-Patient services with a panel of Medical Officers and Para Medical Staff available on duty round the clock. The basic laboratory tests and physiotherapy facilities are provided here. Also, an instrumented ambulance is on waiting round the clock for special service needed in the Secondary and Tertiary Hospitals in the city of Jodhpur. Besides, weekly visits of specialist doctors are arranged in the Primary Health Center. Currently, the facility runs in 3111 and 3114, Street 3, Park Avenue. Besides the Health Center, the Institute has empanelled six hospitals in the city of Jodhpur, namely:
Goyal Hospital & Research Centre
Kamla Nagar Hospital
Vasan Eye Care Hospital
Vasundhara Hospital.
Two of these hospitals have specializations in ophthalmology, one in orthopedic, one in gynaecology and obstetrics and the remaining three hospitals are the best known general purpose hospitals in the city. For specialized medical attention, doctors at our Health Center refer patients to one of these hospitals. In addition to these six hospitals, the city has a Medical College and three hospitals run by Government of Rajasthan. Also, the city has an All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Jodhpur. Besides, there is Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Ayurved University, which runs academic programs and a hospital, in our neighbourhood. Also, the Institute has constituted a Medical Board consisting of Senior Doctors from the Medical College and the AIIMS; advice is taken for enhancement of medical services of the Health Centers, and in critical medical cases further, IIT Jodhpur has empaneled two hospitals in Jaipur. These two hospitals are accredited by National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare, and patients can be referred to these hospitals as per the need of the treatment.
(10)	School: The Institute is poised to start a Kendriya Vidyalaya on its Campus. It has become operational on 6 October 2017 from the Project Office Building in Pocket B. The school will move to its final spot, as soon as the School Building is completed in Pocket C (as part of Phase 2 Development of the Permanent Campus).
Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee
Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee
Important links CCCD @ IITJ Recruitment Correspondence RTI Tenders Techscape Contact Old Website NCCR Portal How To Reach IITJ Institute Repository Donations Web Policy Web Information Manager Feedback CERT-IN Help NIRF Internal Committee
Institute Repository
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India) For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur. N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 13 Mar 2026 - 03:57 PM
Last Updated : 13 Mar 2026 - 03:57 PM
Last Updated : 13 Mar 2026 - 03:57 PM
###147852369$$$_RedirectToLoginPage_%%%963258741!!!