SOURCE_PDF: e17c35c13480_Phd-Thesis-Defence-Ruby-638984752721184183.pdf

Projection methods for fractional-order integro-differential
equations
Ruby (P20MA006)
Supervisor : Dr. Moumita Mandal
Department of Mathematics, IIT Jodhpur
Abstract
Integer-order derivatives and integrals have clear physical and geometric interpreta-
tions, but fractional-order integration and differentiation lack such direct understanding.
To address this, we first explore the geometric interpretation of fractional derivatives. We
establish that the absolute value of a fractional derivative is inversely proportional to the
area of a triangle and numerically verify this for some standard functions. Additionally,
we discuss the physical interpretation of fractional derivatives in terms of fractional di-
vergence and explore an application of fractional tangent lines in the field of numerical
analysis.
Fractional-order integro-differential equations (FIDEs) are widely used in science and
engineering to model complex phenomena, but singularities in fractional derivatives pose
challenges in finding exact solutions. This thesis develops efficient numerical projection
methods for ap proximating solutions of various classes of linear and nonlinear FIDEs with
smooth or weakly singular kernel functions. We consider Caputo’s fractional derivative
as it carry integer-order initial conditions, which have a clear physical interpretation.
We first analyze linear fractional Volterra integro-differential equations (FVIDEs) with
smooth kernels and smooth solutions using a piecewise polynomial approximation sub-
space.
To achieve the desired convergence rates, the FVIDEs are transformed into a
system of fractional Fredholm integro-differential equations using properties of fractional
derivative and suitable variable transformation. Then, we establish general frameworks
of the Galerkin and multi Galerkin methods and achieve improved convergence rates in
the supremum norm. However, note that the singularity in the fractional derivative op-
erator causes the exact solution to be non-differentiable at the origin. Besides, piecewise
polynomial spaces become computationally expensive for higher convergence rates. To ad-
dress these, we later introduce the shifted Jacobi spectral Galerkin method (SJSGM) and
its iterated version for solving linear FVIDEs with non-smooth solutions. The FVIDEs
are reformulated into equivalent classical Fredholm integral equations having weak sin-
gularities in the kernel functions, with H¨
older continuous solution. We achieve improved
convergence rates by incorporating the kernel’s singularity into the Jacobi weight func-
tion and utilizing the solution’s H¨
older continuity. A smoothing transformation further
enhances the regularity of the solution, leading to superconvergence rates.

Next, we establish the convergence results of SJSGM for a more general class of non-
linear weakly singular fractional Volterra-Fredholm integro-differential equations. The
equations are transformed into equivalent singular Fredholm integral equations, where
the kernels exhibit distinct regularity behaviors. This distinct behavior is effectively han-
dled using Jacobi weight functions, leading to better convergence rates. The Kumar-Sloan
method is applied to reduce the computational complexity arising from the nonlinearity.
Further, we establish superconvergence rates for the proposed methods using a regular-
ization technique that enhances the smoothness of the solution.
Lastly, we extend the framework of SJSGM, originally developed for a single-form
equation, to systems of nonlinear multi-order FVIDEs with smooth or weakly singular
kernels having non-smooth solutions, and establish similar superconvergence results using
the regularization technique. Numerical experiments rigorously validate the theoretical
results, demonstrating the accuracy and effectiveness of the proposed methods.
List of Publications
1. Ruby, Mandal, M.:Superconvergent Jacobi spectral Galerkin method for nonlin-
ear fractional Volterra-Fredholm integro-differential equations. Numerical Algo-
rithms (2025).
2. Ruby, Mandal, M.: Superconvergent results for fractional Volterra integro-differential
equations with non-smooth solutions. Journal of Computational and Applied
Mathematics 458, 116337 (2025).
3. Ruby, Mandal, M.: The geometrical and physical interpretation of fractional or-
der derivatives for a general class of functions. Mathematical Methods in the
Applied Sciences 47, 8400–8420 (2024).
4. Ruby, Mandal, M.: Convergence analysis and numerical implementation of projec-
tion methods for solving classical and fractional Volterra integro-differential equa-
tions. Mathematics and Computers in Simulation 225, 889–913 (2023).
5. Ruby, Mandal, M.:
Optimal and superconvergent rational spectral projection
methods for FDEs on unbounded domains. (Under Review )
6. Ruby, Mandal, M.: A high-accuracy numerical method for nonlinear systems of
multi-order fractional Volterra integro-differential equations. (Submitted)