SOURCE_PDF: e39a8e75acba_95a10143-d41d-409e-80f7-15a753b2f8f4.pdf

Hkkjrh; çkS|ksfxdh laLFkku tks/kiqj
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
vfHk'kkld eaMy
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
MINUTES
OF
26th MEETING
1st July 2021 (Thursday)
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur

This page is left blank, intentionally

Dr. R. Chidambaram, Former PSA to Govt. of India Chairman
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur Ex-officio Member
Prof. N. S. Shekhawat, Former Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur Member
Prof. Akhil R. Garg, Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur Member
Prof. Sampat Raj Vadera, Head, Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur Member
Sh. Anil Bhavarlal Jain, MD & CEO, Jain Irrigation, Jalgaon Member
Prof. Surajit Ghosh, Dean (R&D), IIT Jodhpur Member
Sh. N.L. Meena, Secretary, Higher & Technical Education, Govt. of
Rajasthan Member
Sh. P.G. Basak, Advisor (Admin.) & Offg. Registrar Secretary
Sh. Rakesh Ranjan, Additional Secretary (TE), Ministry of Education, * Member
S.No. Items
26.1 WELCOME BY THE CHAIRMAN
26.1.1 To Confirm the Minutes of 25th Meeting of the Board of Governors held on
31st March 2021 at Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
26.1.2 Presentation by the two faculty members on their research work
/accomplishments before the BoG.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
The following Members were present/ attended through Video-conferencing:
*However, the Ministry of Education has issued Comments on the Agenda communicated vide letter 
No. F.No.12-8/2018-TS.1 (pt.1) dated 30.06.2021 (vide email dated 30.06.2021) and considered in the 
Meeting.
The following are the decisions of the BoG on the items of the Agenda:

exploring applications like using PV with Bio-Gas to handle the PV
intermittency, problems in PV pumps, and Solar Harvesting which could solve
farmers problems. Sh. Jain further expressed his willingness to support such
projects so that technological solutions could be provided to farmers.
The BoG Members appreciated the research work presented by Dr. Fulwani and
suggested continuing to work on Control and related problems.
2. Dr. Ritu Gupta, Associate Professor, Department of Chemistry, presented her
Research highlights of the work related to Nanomaterials and Devices for
Energy and Sensing applications from additive nanomanufacturing approach.
Dr. Gupta presented unique aspects of fluorinated nanomaterials and solution
processed inks of metal oxides, 2D nanomaterials for fabrication of devices by
printing and patterning methods.
Sh. Anil Bhavarlal Jain, Member, BoG appreciated the research work presented
by Dr. Gupta and suggested exploring in particular, the development of sensors
for soil, agriculture and applications for water impurities and collaborating with
industries for practical applications.
Prof. S.R. Vadera, Member, BoG requested Faculty Members try to get patented
technologies developed/under-development by them. The Director seconded Prof.
Vadera and encouraged Dr. Fulwani and Dr. Gupta to consider the possible
opportunities for exploiting an invention so as technologies patented and
commercial exploitation of new technologies. It would be beneficial for Faculty as
well as Institute’s portfolio.
Chairman, BOG appreciated the research highlights of the work related to
Nanomaterials and Devices for Energy and Sensing applications from additive
nanomanufacturing approach presented by Dr. Ritu Gupta and suggested Dr.
Gupta for exploring the possibility of joint research work and formulation of
proposals in collaboration with faculty of Electrical Engg. and other departments.
The Chairman, BoG and Members of the BoG appreciated the presentations made
by Dr. Deepak Fulwani and Dr. Ritu Gupta. exploring applications like using PV with Bio-Gas to handle the PV
26.2 INSTITUTE REPORT BY THE DIRECTOR

26.2.1 Report on Action Taken on the 25th Meeting of the Board of Governors held
on 31st March 2021 at Board Room, IIT Jodhpur

26.3 DISCUSSION ITEMS
26.3.1 To consider and approve the signing of Memorandum of
Understanding between the Institute and the Ministry of Education
for FY 2021-22.
26.3.2 To consider and approve to extend the provision of appointments by
the Standing Committee.

26.3.3 To suggest and approve panel of experts for selection of faculty
members in the (i) Department of Physics and (ii) Department of
Mathematics.
26.4 REPORTING, ADOPTING AND NOTING ITEMS
26.4.1 Report on Faculty Members and Staff Members joining and resigning from
the Institute
26.4.2 To consider and approve the adoption of the CCS (Implementation of NPS)
Rules, 2021 notified by Department of Pension and Pensioners’ Welfare,
Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Govt. of India vide
Gazette Notification dated 30th March 2021 as per provisions of the
Statutes of the Institute.
26.4.3 Adoption of Circulars of MoE and Government of India
26.4.4 Reporting the appointment of Independent Directors on the Section-8
companies established by IIT Jodhpur

26.4.5 Report of R&D Projects sanctioned to the Faculty Members of the Institute
from last Meeting of the BoG.
26.4.6 Report of MoUs/Agreement(s) signed with different
Institutions/organizations/companies by the Institute.
26.5 RATIFICATION ITEMS
26.5.1 Approvals accorded by Chairman, Board of Governors/Director.
(a) Reports of Selection Committees of Faculty Members
(b) Appointment of Visiting Professor
(C) Report of Standing Committees (appointment /extension of term/term
end)
(d) Approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG through U.O. Note on extension of
appointment through Standing Committee
(e) Reports of Selection Committees of Staff Members through Standing
Committee
(f) Various approvals accorded by the Chairman, BoG through U.O. Note.
26.6 Any other item with the prior permission of the Chairman
26.6.1 To consider and approve the proposed panel of experts for Selection of
Faculty in the Centres of the Institute.
26.6.2 The Outcome of Selection Committees for the post of Deputy Director,
Registrar and Executive Engineer.

The Meeting ended with thanks to the Chair and all Members of the Board of Governors.
Offg. Registrar & Secretary, BoG
Sd/- 
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Approved 
 
 
Sd/- 
Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur