SOURCE_PDF: e60761eb1780_Ph.D._2013.pdf

Regulations for Ph.D. Programs
(For students enrolled in or before December 2013)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

Contents
Description 
Page
1. 
Introduction 
3
2. 
Academic Session 
3
2.1 Academic Calendar 
3
3. 
Admissions 
4
3.1 Eligibility for Admission 
5
3.2 Selection Procedure 
6
3.3 Supervisor Allocation 
7
3.4 Reservation Policy 
7
3.5 Non-degree Program 
7
3.6 Cancellation of Admission 
8
3.7 Fulfilment of Admission Requirements 
8
4. 
Coursework Requirements 
12
4.1 Academic Load 
12
4.2 Registration 
13
4.3 Registration Procedure 
13
4.4 Late Registration 
13
4.5 Adding and Dropping of Courses 
13
4.6 Withdrawing from a Course 
14
4.7 Cancellation of Registration 
14
5. 
Teaching and Evaluation 
14
5.1 Teaching 
14
5.2 Attendance Requirements 
15
5.3 Evaluation 
15
5.4 Grading System 
16
5.5 Grade Point Averages 
17
5.6 Grade Card and Transcript 
18
6. 
Termination 
18
6.1 Termination from M.Tech. Program 
18
6.2 Appeal against Termination 
18
7. 
Leave 
19
7.1 Short Leave 
19
7.2 Temporary Withdrawal / Semester Leave 
19
7.3 Permission to Proceed to Other Institutions 
20

8. 
Requirements for Graduation 
21
8.1 Minimum Duration of Residence 
21
8.2 Academic 
22
8.3 Payment of Fees and Dues 
22
8.4 No Case of Disciplinary Action 
22
8.5 Award of Degrees 
22
8.6 Withdrawal of Degree 
23
9. 
Financial Assistance 
23
10. Amendments 
23

S.No. Segment of the Year Duration
1 Semester 1 Fourth week of July – Last week of November
2 Winter Vacation First week of December – Third week of
December
3 Semester 2 Last week of December – Last week of April
4 Summer Vacation First week of May – Third week of July
1. INTRODUCTION
The aim of the Ph.D. Program is to develop graduates having
good knowledge and research training in classical and emerging areas. 
IIT Jodhpur hosts Ph.D. program in all areas of technology, 
engineering, sciences, and humanities and social sciences. The Ph.D. 
Program is based on three tenets of (1) Semester System, (2) Credit 
System, and (3) Relative Grading. This document sets out the procedures 
and requirements of the said postgraduate Programs of study at IIT 
Jodhpur. The Ph.D. program will be administered by a duly 
constituted Academic Committee (AC), through the office of 
Academics. 
 
 
2. ACADEMIC SESSION 
 
Each academic year (July to June) consists of two academic semesters.
Each semester is for about sixteen (16) weeks with one week of recess for 
students, making it about 15 working weeks in each semester. Excluding the 
days of the examinations, the total number of days of instruction in a semester 
is at least 70. Normal schedule of these semesters is given in Table 1. 
 
Table 1: Schedule of the Academic Session
2.1 Academic Calendar
It gives the exact dates of all important events during the
Academic Session, such as orientation, registration, commencement of 
classes, adding and dropping of courses, submission of documents, 
examinations, submission of grades, conversion of Incomplete I-
grades, vacation, mid-semester recess. This calendar shall be approved 
by the Senate.

in India or abroad. The students shall be eligible for f inancial
3. ADMISSIONS
The process of admission to the Ph.D. Programs offered by the
Institute normally is underway during March-April for Semester 1 and 
during November-December for Semester 2. The Institute admits 
students to the doctoral degree Programs in three categories, namely: 
 (a) Regular Full-Time Ph.D. Program
Students admitted in this category shall not be a registered
(b) Part-Time Ph.D. Program
Students admitted in this category shall be a full-time employee
of a recognized Institute, University or Organization. The student 
shall not be eligible for any financial support, and needs to get 
her/his application forwarded by her/his employer. The student 
shall complete the minimum course and residence requirements at 
IIT Jodhpur; she/he can undertake research at a location other than 
the Institute.
(c) Sponsored Ph.D. Program
Students admitted in this category shall be a full-time employee
and sponsored by Industry, Organization and National Laboratory 
equipped with research facilities and recognized by Department of 
Science and Technology (DST). The student shall not be eligible for 
any financial assistantship from the Institute. The student shall be 
allowed to carry out a part or all of her/his research in the parent 
Industry, Organization or National Laboratory, under the 
supervision of a Supervisor from IIT Jodhpur and a Co-Supervisor from 
the parent Industry, Organization or National Laboratory. The Co-
Supervisor should have an earned Ph.D. Degree herself/himself in 
an area related to the proposed research work of the student.
Students with Masters Degree earned from a University or an
Institute abroad also are eligible to apply for the Ph.D. program.

3.1 Eligibility for Admission 
 
The eligibility criteria prescribed in this section are the absolute
minimum. 
 
3.1.1 Ph.D. Program in an Engineering discipline 
(1) Applicants with a Master’s degree in Engineering, namely M.Tech,
M.E., M.Sc. (Engineering) or MS with at least 60% marks or at least 
6.5/10 Cumulative Performance Index (CPI) or Cumulative Grade 
Point Average (CGPA). Such students are required to have at least 
60% marks or 6.5/10 CPI or CGPA in Bachelor’s degree.
(2) Applicants with a Master’s degree in Sciences with at least 70%
marks or at least 7.0/10 CPI or CGPA with a valid GATE, CSIR, 
UGC or NBHM score card. Such students are required to have 70% 
marks or 7.0/10 CPI or CGPA in Bachelor’s degree.
(3) Applicants with a Bachelor’s degree in Engineering with
(a) a B.Tech, B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering) degree with at least 80%
marks or at least 8/10 CPI or CGPA and a valid GATE score, 
and
(b) a B.Tech. degree from any of the IITs with at least 8/10 CPI or
CGPA with a valid GATE Score Card; and
(4) Applicants with Master’s degree in Engineering from a University
or an Institute abroad with at least 60% marks, 3.0/4 CPI or CGPA, or 
8.0/10 CPI or CGPA.
3.1.2 Ph.D. Program in a Science discipline 
(1) Master’s degree in Sciences with at least 60% marks or at least
6.5/10 CPI or CGPA with a valid GATE, CSIR, UGC score card or 
equivalent. Such students are required to have at least 60% marks 
or 6.5/10 CPI or CGPA in Bachelor’s degree. Applicants holding 
Master’s degree in Engineering also are eligible to apply for Ph.D. 
Programme in Sciences with at least 70% marks or 7/10 CPI or 
CGPA. Again, such applicants are required to have at least 70% 
marks or 7/10 CPI or CGPA in both the Bachelor’s and Master’s 
degree.
(2) Applicants holding only Bachelor’s degree in Engineering with
(i) a B.Tech, B.E. or B.Sc.(Engineering) degree with at least 80%
marks or 8/10 CPI or CGPA and a valid GATE score card, and

(ii) a B.Tech. degree from any of the IITs with at least 8/10 CPI or
CGPA or a valid GATE score card; and
(3) Applicants with Master’s degree in Sciences or Engineering from a
University or an Institute abroad with at least 60% marks, 3.0/4 
CPI or CGPA, or 8.0/10 CPI or CGPA.
3.1.3 Ph.D. Program in a Humanities and Social Science discipline 
(1) Master’s 
degree 
in 
Humanities, 
Social 
Sciences, 
Sciences,
Engineering or allied areas with at least 55% marks or 6.0/10 CPI 
or CGPA with a valid GATE, UGC or CSIR score.
(2) Applicants holding only Bachelor’s degree in Engineering with
(a) a B.Tech, B.E. or B.Sc.(Engineering) degree with at least 80%
marks or 8/10 CPI or CGPA and a valid GATE score card, and
(b) a B.Tech. degree from any of the IITs with at least 8/10 CPI or
CGPA or a valid GATE score card; and
(3) Applicants with Master’s degree in Humanities, Social Sciences,
Sciences, Engineering or allied areas from a University or an 
Institute abroad with at least 60% marks, 3.0/4 CPI or CGPA, or 
8.0/10 CPI or CGPA.
3.2 Selection Procedure
The Academic Committee shortlists applicants with a proven
academic record based on a cut-off of the GATE, CSIR or UGC score 
card or equivalent. The shortlisted applicants will be called for the 
written examination and/or interview. Admission will be made based 
on technical performance at the written examination and/or interview.
The Institute shall call the shortlisted candidates for an
interview to a Selection Committee consisting of Faculty Members 
associated with that particular discipline. Based on the technical 
performance of the candidate in the interview in addition to her/his 
academic record, the Selection Committee will recommend to the 
Chairman, Senate, names of candidates found suitable for admission to 
the Ph.D. Program. 
 
 
All applicants, who are offered admission, will be informed
within a week of the interview process. Candidates whose selection is

approved by the Chairman, Senate, will be admitted to the Ph.D. 
Program at IIT Jodhpur after paying the prescribed fee for the 
Program. 
 
3.3 Supervisor Allocation 
(1) The Supervisor for Students admitted to the Ph.D. Program shall be
identified during the interview. The Supervisor identification will 
be based on the research interest of the student and the availability 
of a faculty member willing to supervise such a work.
(2) At the time of selection, one Supervisor will be identified. If the
research work chosen requires more than one Supervisor, the 
student or Supervisor can make a request with justification along 
with the consent of the proposed Supervisor for consideration by 
the Academic Committee. Appointment of Co-Supervisor should 
be completed within one and half years of admission to the Ph.D. 
Program. The Co-Supervisor can be from an Institute, University or 
Laboratory of National repute outside IIT Jodhpur. Such 
appointments shall be made by Chairman Senate, IIT Jodhpur.
3.4 Reservation Policy
The norms of reservation for different categories shall be
adopted as laid down by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, 
Government of India.
3.5 Non-degree Program
A non-degree student is a student who is registered for a
degree in a recognized Institute or a University in India or abroad, and 
who is officially sponsored by that Institute or University to complete a 
part of her/his academic programme at IIT Jodhpur. For that purpose, 
the non-degree student may carry out research, take courses for credit 
or otherwise, and/or may use other academic facilities. An official 
transcript of work done at the Institute along with grades obtained, if 
any, would be given to the non-degree student concerned for her/his 
use as she/he may deem appropriate. But, any credits earned at the 
Institute, by a non-degree student, cannot be applied for any degree 
program of IIT Jodhpur at any time thereafter. A person can be 
admitted as a non-degree student on a duly sponsored application to 
the Coordinator (Academics), who will recommend admission on the

advice of AC to the Chairman, Senate, for approval. A non-degree 
student may be admitted for a maximum period of one year. The 
strength of non-degree students in any programme should not be more 
than 25% of the program strength. A non-degree student will be 
required to pay all applicable fees depending upon the status, 
programme, and nationality. Such students will be governed by all 
rules, regulations and discipline applicable to regular students of the 
Institute. 
 
3.6 Cancellation of Admission
Students 
admitted 
provisionally 
or 
otherwise 
to 
any
programme shall submit copies of their mark sheets, provisional 
certificates, etc. of the qualifying examination and other documents by 
the last date specified for the purpose in the Academic Calendar. The 
Senate reserves the right to cancel the admission of any student, if 
(a) she/he fails to submit the prescribed documents demonstrating
her/his minimum academic qualification for admission, by the 
specified date or to meet other stipulated requirement(s); and
(b) it is found (at any time later) that the student had provided some
false information or suppressed relevant information while seeking 
admission.
3.7 Fulfilment of Admission Requirements 
 
Admission to Ph.D. programs requires that the applicant be
eligible, go through the laid-down admission procedure, and pay the 
prescribed fees. All admissions to the Ph.D. programs should be 
formally approved by the Senate. 
 
(a) Course Work
Ph.D. students are required to undergo 600 and 700 level
coursework at the Institute, offered either by the Center and/or 
discipline with which the Supervisor of the Ph.D. student is 
associated or by any other Center and/or discipline. The minimum 
number of 600 and 700 level courses is listed in Table 2, which the 
Ph.D. 
student 
should 
meet 
to 
complete 
the 
coursework
requirement. Ph.D. students holding an M.Tech. degree from IIT 
Jodhpur or any other IITs shall not credit the same or equivalent 
courses.

S. No. Ph.D. in with Minimum
1. Engineering
discipline M.Tech., M.E. or M.Sc. (Engineering) in an
Engineering discipline 4
M.Sc. degree in a Science discipline 10
B.Tech., B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering) in an
Engineering discipline 10
2. Science,
Humanities or
Social Sciences
discipline M.Sc., M.A. and M.Phil. degree in a Science,
Humanities or Social Sciences discipline 4
examination will be based on op en-ended questions in proposed
may also be allowed to appear for Comprehensive Examination before
(b) Comprehensive Examination
After completing the coursework, the Ph.D. student is required
The Comprehensive Examination shall be coordinated by the
Supervisor(s) and at least three other Faculty Members from the 
Institute nominated by the Supervisor(s) and approved by the 
Coordinator (Academics). These three other faculty members should 
have had research experience in the proposed research area of the 
student or an allied research area.
The student shall demonstrate satisfactory performance in the
Comprehensive Examination; else the student shall be given one 
more chance to appear for the Comprehensive Examination after a 
period of two months. If the student fails to perform satisfactorily

S. No. Ph.D. in with Comprehensive
1. Engineering
discipline M.Tech., M.E. or M.Sc. (Engineering) in
an Engineering discipline 2
M.Sc. degree in a Science discipline 4
B.Tech., B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering) in
an Engineering discipline 4
2. Science,
Humanities or
Social Sciences
discipline M.Sc., M.A. and M.Phil. degree in a
Science, Humanities or Social Sciences
discipline 2
in this attempt also, the registration of the student in the Ph.D. 
program stands cancelled. Normally, the student is expected to 
successfully complete the Comprehensive Examination by the end 
of following semesters (from the date of Ph.D. registration) as 
indicated in Table 3, failing which the registration of the student in 
the Ph.D. program stands cancelled.
(c) State-of-the-Art Seminar
After 
the 
successful 
completion 
of 
the 
Comprehensive
Examination, the student is required to give a public State-of-the-Art 
Seminar based on a thorough survey of literature in the proposed 
research area. This Seminar must be given in no case later than the 
end of third semester from the date of registration to the Ph.D. 
program. The State-of-the-Art Seminar given by the student shall 
be evaluated by the Supervisor(s); if the performance is found to be 
unsatisfactory, the student shall present the State-of-the-Art 
Seminar again after 2 months.
(d) Open Seminar
After successfully presenting the State-of-the-Art Seminar and
undertaking research work, the student shall give a public Open 
Seminar at least two months before the submission of the Thesis. In 
this Open Seminar, the student shall present the main contention of 
research findings. It is intended to give the student any inputs or 
suggestions on the research carried out. Hence, there is no 
evaluation of this presentation made by the student.

(e) Thesis Submission and Defense
The student shall submit the Thesis within two months of the
Open Seminar. Prior to submission of the Thesis, the student 
should have preferably at least one paper either published or 
accepted for publication in a peer reviewed journal. Further, 
1. The Supervisor(s) shall propose a list of 10 examiners consisting
of at least four Faculty Members from abroad and 4 Faculty 
Members from India, who have the expertise in the area in 
which the student undertook research. For selecting an 
examiner, following guidelines should be followed: 
(a) The examiners shall have at least 6 years Post-Ph.D.
(b) No two proposed examiners shall be from the same
organization; and
(c) The examiners can be Faculty Members or Scientists, of
standing and repute. 
The list provided by the Ph.D. Thesis Supervisor is not
binding on the Chairman, Senate. In special instances, the 
Chairman, Senate may identify examiners beyond in the 
list.
2. The Chairman, Senate, IIT Jodhpur, shall select two examiners
from the proposed list, of which at least one should be an 
examiner from outside India. In addition, the Supervisor(s) 
shall be the examiner(s) of the Thesis. The consent of these 
Faculty Members shall be taken before sending the Thesis to 
them.
3. The Indian examiners should attend in person the Thesis
4. The examiners shall submit a written report on the Thesis
within a period of two months from the date of receipt of the 
Thesis.
5. If both examiners declare the Thesis as acceptable for award of
Ph.D. degree, the Coordinator (Academics) shall request the 
Supervisor(s) to hold the Thesis Defense by the student.
6. If any of the examiners rejects the Thesis for the award of the
Ph.D. degree, the Coordinator (Academics) shall report the matter 
to the Chairman, Senate, IIT Jodhpur, for further consideration.

The Chairman, Senate, IIT Jodhpur, will refer the Thesis to a 
third 
examiner 
under 
special 
circumstances, 
else 
the
registration of the student shall stand cancelled in the Ph.D. 
program.
7. If both examiners reject the Thesis for the award of the Ph.D.
degree, no degree shall be awarded by the Institute, and the 
registration of the student shall stand cancelled in the Ph.D. 
program.
8. If an examiner suggests revision of the Thesis, the student shall
resubmit the Thesis after the revision within a prescribed time 
period specified by the Chairman, Senate, under the guidance 
of the Supervisor(s).
9. When both examiners recommend the Thesis as accepted for
the student to defend the Thesis, or after the resubmission of 
the Thesis after incorporating the suggestions/corrections 
given by the examiners, the student shall publicly present the 
Thesis and defend the contention of the Thesis.
The committee consisting of Supervisor(s), the Examiner from
within India and the three Faculty Members, who participated in the 
Comprehensive Examination of the student, shall evaluate the Thesis 
Defense of the Ph.D. student also. On their recommendation, 
Coordinator (Academics) shall recommend to Senate, to consider the 
award of Ph.D. degree to the student.
4. COURSEWORK REQUIREMENTS 
4.1 Academic Load
Each course is given a weightage called credits. The number of
credits of each course is based on the number of contact hours for 
lectures, tutorials, and practicals. A typical PG course is of 3-4 credits. 
Credits will be assigned to the courses based on the following general 
pattern: 
(a) Four credits for three lecture classes of 50 minutes each; 
(b) One credit for each tutorial class of 50 minutes; and 
(c) Two credits for each laboratory or practical class of three hours.

4.2 Registration
Students are required to register each semester for the courses
as per the programme, on the dates specified in the Academic 
Calendar. After the successful completion of the required courses, a 
Ph.D. student must continue to register in the following semester till 
she/he submits her/his Thesis. 
 
4.3 Registration Procedure
A list of courses to be offered in the next semester will be
announced online by the AC. Students shall pre-register for courses, in 
consultation with their respective Supervisor. The registration 
procedure involves 
(a) Online filling of the registration form with courses proposed to be
credited in the semester;
(b) Payment of fees and clearance of outstanding dues (if any); and 
(c) Signing of the registration roll at the office of the coordinator of the
center/discipline hosting the Ph.D. Program. 
A fresh student joining the Institute, who is awaiting the final
results of the qualifying examination, is allowed to register 
provisionally on submission of a certificate from her/his last Institute 
stating that she/he has appeared in the final examination of the 
qualifying degree. The student is required to submit documents of 
having passed the qualifying examination by the last date given in the 
Academic Calendar for the registration to be regularized. 
 
4.4 Late Registration
If for any compelling reason, like illness, a student is unable to
register on the day of registration, she/he can register before the late 
registration date of registration specified in the academic calendar. If a 
student seeks prior permission to register late on other valid grounds, 
Chairman, AC, may allow late registration. Beyond the date of late 
registration, no student will be allowed to register. In special cases, the 
final decision will rest with the Senate. 
 
4.5 Adding and Dropping of Courses
A student may add or drop course(s) within one week of the
beginning of the semester or the last date(s) specified in the Academic 
Calendar. For this, the student must fill the appropriate form, get it

endorsed by the Instructor of the course being added, and submit the 
same to the AC. No permission is required to drop a course.
4.6 Withdrawing from a Course
After the last date of add-drop, a student will have the option of
withdrawing from a course. The last date of course withdrawal will be 
1 week after the first Mid-Term Exam. A student can withdraw from a 
course with the permission of the course Instructor, and subsequent 
approval from the Academic Committee. A student cannot add a new 
course in lieu of the dropped course. The withdrawn course will be 
mentioned in the Student’s grade card with a letter grade ‘Y’. 
 
4.7 Cancellation of Registration
Absence for a period of four or more weeks without prior
permission during a semester shall result in automatic cancellation of 
the registration of a student from all the courses in that semester. 
 
 
5. TEACHING AND EVALUATION 
5.1 Teaching 
(a) Medium of Instruction
The medium of instruction of all courses shall be English.
(b) Approval of Courses
Each course along with its weight in terms of credits is
approved by the Senate. Only approved courses may be offered 
during any semester/summer-term.
(c) List of Courses
The list of courses to be offered in a Ph.D. Program is finalized
before the beginning of the semester, by the center/discipline 
hosting that Program.
(d) Conduct of Courses
Each course shall be conducted by the Faculty Member with the
assistance of required Teaching Assistants, as required. The Faculty 
Member is responsible for conducting the course: teaching in the 
class, holding the examinations, evaluating the performance of 
students, awarding the grades at the end of the semester, and 
submitting the grades to AC within 72 hours of the completion of 
the final examination.

(e) Teaching Assignments
Prior to each semester, the Coordinator of the Center hosting the
Ph.D. Program shall request the Convenors of relevant Focus 
Groups for providing a list of courses being floated by faculty 
members of the Focus Groups. The Conveners of Focus Groups shall 
hold a meeting of all its faculty members to identify names of 
faculty members offering the courses of the next semester.
(f) Auditing of Courses
A student may audit any number of courses beyond the
prescribed minimum number of courses. Students wishing to audit 
a course shall seek the consent of the Instructor of the course being 
audited. The name of the audited course will appear in the Grade-
Card of the student. No grade will be awarded to students auditing 
a course; the Instructor may require such students to submit all 
homeworks and term papers during the semester just like the 
students, who are crediting the course.
5.2 Attendance Requirements
A student should have full attendance in each course. Unless
the student takes leave of absence for valid reasons, the student has to 
attend every lecture, tutorial, or lab session. If a student is absent 
without any reason, the Instructor would send him a warning by 
email. If the student’s attendance falls below 80% then the Instructor 
will notify the Academic Section and a letter will be sent to the 
student’s parents. If the student still does not attend the classes 
regularly, then the Academic Committee can deregister the student 
from the course. Once a student is deregistered from a course, that 
course will not show up in the grade-card of the student. 
 
5.3 Evaluation 
 
The performance of students in a course is evaluated in a
continuous basis, using their interaction in the classroom, and 
performances in examinations, the laboratory work (if any), and term-
papers and projects. 
(a) Schedule of Examinations
Each course shall have two mid-semester and one end-semester
examinations; the mid-semester examinations shall be of 60 minutes

S.No. Mid- Mid- End- Homeworks Term Laboratory
Semester 1 Semester 2 Semester Projects
duration and the final examination of 180 minutes. The weightages of 
elements of evaluation in different courses are listed in Table 4.
(b) Make-up Examinations
No make-up examinations are admissible for any reason. But, if
a student fails to appear in any examination (two mid-semester and 
one end semester examinations) for a genuine reason (such as illness), 
she/he may make a request to AC for a make-up examination within 
two days of the date of the scheduled examination; a certificate shall be 
furnished from the Medical Officer of the Institute Health Center, 
when illness being the reason for absence from the examination. In 
such cases, the marks obtained in the other elements of evaluation shall 
be prorated for the examination missed. When two examinations are 
missed in a course, the prorating is done for only one examination; the 
marks in the other examination shall be taken as zero. 
 
5.4 Grading System 
(a) Grades and Grade Points
At the end of the semester, a student is awarded a relative letter
grade in each course by the Instructor offering the course 
considering the performance of the student during the semester 
with respect to those of the other students registered in the course. 
Five regular letter grades, namely A, B, C, D and F shall be 
awarded in each course for Ph.D. students. Each letter grade is 
associated with a numerical equivalent on a 10-point scale (called 
Grade Point) shown in Table 5. The grades shall be submitted to the 
AC within 72 hours after the end semester examination.
A student is awarded ‘I’ grade in a course, when the student
fails to appear in the end-semester examination for a genuine 
reason. The student shall appear for a make-up examination within 
the first week of the next semester and seek to convert the ‘I’ grade

S.No. Letter Grade Comment
Grade Points
3 C 6 Marginal
6 I - Incomplete
7 S - Acceptable These grades are given for
performance in the Ph.D. Thesis
work. If a student earns three X
grades for Ph.D. Thesis in any three
semesters, the Ph.D. Program of the
student shall be terminated
immediately thereafter.
X - Unacceptable
8 W - This grade indicates that a waiver granted for a course at IIT
Jodhpur due to courses credited and/or work done at a
institute or University elsewhere. All such courses and/or
requirements will be deemed to carry zero credits for
SGPA/CGPA calculations.
9 Y - This grade indicates that the student has withdrawn from a
course after the add-drop date with the permission of the
Course Instructor, and with subsequent approval from the
Academic Committee. All such courses and/or requirements
will be deemed to carry zero credits for SGPA/CGPA
calculations.
into one of the regular grades, at least one day before the last date 
of add drop in the next semester. Any ‘I’ grade remaining after this 
date shall be converted automatically into an ‘F’ grade.
A PhD student shall obtain a minimum CGPA of 7.0/10 in the
courses taken by her/him to complete the minimum course work 
requirement.
(b) Change of Grade Already Awarded
Normally, a letter grade once awarded shall not be changed.
Only, in exceptional circumstances, the Senate may allow the 
required change.
5.5 Grade Point Averages
The Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) is a weighted average
of the grades earned by a student in all the courses credited by 
her/him and reflects her/his academic performance in the respective

semester. If the grade points associated with the letter grades earned 
by a student in N courses registered during a semester are G1, G2, … 
GN, and the corresponding credits C1, C2, … CN, then the SGPA is given 
by
The Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) indicates the overall
academic performance of a student in all the courses registered up to 
the latest completed semester. The CGPA is computed in a similar 
manner as the SGPA, considering all the courses in all semesters. 
 
5.6 Grade Card and Transcript 
 
A Grade Card shall be issued to each student at the end of each
semester, and a Transcript at the end of the Ph.D. Program. 
 
 
6. TERMINATION 
6.1 Termination from Ph.D. Program 
 
A student may be terminated from the Ph.D. Program by the
Chairman, Senate, if the student 
(a) is absent without authorized leave of absence for a major part of the
semester and does not appear in the end-semester examination of 
the courses in which she/he is registered;
(b) fails to report and register by the last date of registration without a
bonafide reason;
(c) violates the code of conduct, involves in ragging, etc., as confirmed
by the student Disciplinary Action Committee of the Institute; or
(d) does not earn the prescribed minimum number of credits within a
maximum of 2 years from the date of registration, including all 
leaves of absence.
6.2 Appeal against Termination
A student, who is terminated from the Ph.D. Program, can
appeal for reconsideration to the Chairman, Senate. In the appeal, the 
student is expected to give reasons for poor academic performance 
and/or why the termination should be reconsidered. The Senate shall 
take a final decision after considering all the available inputs. But, the

Senate will not entertain any further appeal for review, unless 
substantial additional information is brought to its notice. 
 
 
7. LEAVE
Application for leave of absence should be addressed to the
Chairman, AC, and submitted with a medical certificate, if applicable. 
Usually, leave must not be availed of without prior approval of the AC. 
Applications for all kinds of leave must be submitted well in advance 
of the date of commencement of the leave requested. Student’s absence 
from the Institute without sanctioned leave will entail loss of financial 
assistantship for the period of absence and in extreme circumstances 
may also result in the termination from the respective Ph.D. Program. 
 
7.1 Short Leave 
 
Ph.D. students are entitled for vacation leave up to a maximum
of 15 days per Semester in addition to Public Holidays. Vacation leave 
not availed in a Semester will be carried over to the next Semester up 
to a maximum of 15 days. For bonafide reasons, the student may also 
be allowed casual leave for up to 7 days per semester.
Ph.D. students may be granted medical leave, duly supported
by a medical certificate, up to a maximum of 15 days per year. Such 
leave shall not entail any loss of financial assistantship. Female 
students are entitled for maternity leave, duly supported by a medical 
certificate, for a maximum of 3 months, once during the tenure of their 
assistantship or fellowship. Male students are also entitled for 15 days 
paternity leave, once during the tenure of their assistantship or 
fellowship. The leave should be duly supported by a medical 
certificate.
Special Leave is admissible with the recommendation of
Supervisor(s) to attend Seminars and Conferences in India or abroad to 
present research papers.
7.2 Temporary Withdrawal / Semester Leave
Normally, a student is not allowed to withdraw from the Ph.D.
program temporarily and is expected to complete the program without

a break. But, for genuine reasons and/or in exceptional circumstances, 
a student may be allowed to withdraw temporarily on leave of absence 
at the discretion of AC and/or Senate for an extended period. Such 
leave of absence(s) shall ordinarily not exceed two semesters with or 
without break during the entire period of the Ph.D. Program. Absence 
for a period of four or more weeks in any semester will result in 
automatic withdrawal from all courses in that semester.
In case of a prolonged leave of absence due to medical or other
genuine reasons, the student or his parents must notify the Office of 
Academics, before proceeding on leave, or as soon as possible. A 
student who remains on authorized leave of absence due to ill health, 
is required to submit on return a certificate from a Registered Medical 
Practitioner to the effect that he/she is sufficiently cured and is fit to 
resume his/her studies. Within a fortnight of the student joining back 
to the Institute after recovering from illness, he/she should get his 
treatment verified by the Medical Officer at the Health Center of IIT 
Jodhpur and get the treatment summary recorded on his/her medical 
booklet. The student will be allowed to register only when AC is fully 
satisfied of his/her state of health. The Academic Committee may advise 
the student to apply for a reduced course load or, if deemed necessary, 
dropping the semester.
7.3 Permission to Proceed to other Institutions
To help students to broaden their horizons and gain
course/work experience, she/he may be permitted to proceed to other 
academic institutes in India or abroad as a non-degree student. The 
following guidelines and procedures apply for this purpose: 
(1) Eligibility: A student may be allowed to spend up to one semester
and/or 
one 
summer 
terms 
in 
any 
academic
institute/university/industry of repute in India or abroad with 
prior permission of AC, if the student has: 
(a) Completed course work, comprehensive examination, and
state-of-the-art-Seminar; and
(b) No ‘F’ grade in any course.
(2) Procedure: The student shall make an application to AC through the
Supervisor and Coordinator of the Center hosting the program,

giving details of the proposed visit, and shall submit a statement of 
purpose 
with 
sufficient 
information 
about 
the
institute/university/industry where she/he has chosen to spend 
time as a non-degree student. The AC will examine the student’s 
request. On the recommendation of the AC, the Senate may 
approve the proposal and grant permission, with leave of absence, 
to the student to proceed as a non-degree student to the selected 
institute.
(3) Transfer of Credits and Waiver in-lieu thereof: The student will be
informed about the requirements she/he must fulfil to apply, on 
her/his return, for academic credit. On return, the student may 
apply for waiver with an official transcript of the grades obtained 
by her/him at the selected institute as a non-degree student and 
other documents/material that the concerned Center may require 
for evaluation. The AC will determine the equivalent courses 
and/or requirements for which the student may be given a waiver 
in her/his Ph.D. Program at IIT Jodhpur. Against each course or 
requirement for which a waiver is granted, the letter grade ‘W’ 
shall appear on the grade card and transcript.
On the recommendation of the AC, the Senate may allow a
student waiver for a maximum credit equivalent to that earned in 2 
semesters in the respective branch in-lieu of her/his successful 
completion of the Ph.D. Program, elsewhere as a non-degree 
student.
(4) Students selected by the Institute, using prescribed rules and
procedures, to proceed on any Academic Exchange Program will 
be governed by the other Clauses of 8.
8. REQUIREMENTS FOR GRADUATION 
 
A student is deemed to have completed the requirements for
graduation if she/he has met the requirements laid down in Clauses 
8.1 to 8.4.
8.1 Minimum Duration of Residence 
 
Ph.D. students are required to complete at least the duration of
stay listed in Table 6. Part-time students sponsored by R&D Institutes 
or Laboratories are required to stay on the campus until completion of 
coursework, comprehensive examination and state-of-the-art Seminar.

S.No. Ph.D. in With Minimum Duration of
1. Engineering
discipline M.Tech., M.E. or M.Sc. (Engineering) in
an Engineering discipline 4
M.Sc. degree in a Science discipline 6
B.Tech., B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering) in
an Engineering discipline 6
2. Science,
Humanities or
Social Sciences
discipline M.Sc., M.A. and M.Phil. degree in a
Science, Humanities or Social Sciences
discipline 4
8.2 Academic
A Ph.D. student is said to have completed the course work
requirements, if she/he satisfies the criteria laid down in Sections 4 
and 5.4. The student shall be declared to have fulfilled the Academic 
requirements if she/he has completed the minimum number of courses 
as per Table 2. 
 
8.3 Payment of Fees and Dues 
 
The student shall pay all admissible fee and dues, and seek a No
DUE CERTIFICATE from the Institute, on completion of the Academic 
Requirements. 
 
8.4 No case of Disciplinary Action
The student shall not have any case of indiscipline pending
against her/him. 
 
8.5 Award of Degrees
A student who completes all the graduation requirements
specified in Clauses 8.1 to 8.4 is recommended by the Senate to the 
Board of Governors (BOG) for the award of the appropriate degree in 
the ensuing convocation. The degree can be awarded only after the 
BOG accords its approval.

8.6 Withdrawal of Degree
Under extremely exceptional circumstances, where gross
violation of the graduation requirements is detected at a later stage, the 
Senate may recommend to the Board of Governors withdrawal of a 
degree already awarded to the student. 
 
 
9. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
Full time Ph.D. students shall be offered Teaching or Research
Assistantships in return for 8 hours of work per week. Teaching 
Assistantship duties shall include assisting Faculty Members in the 
conduct of courses (e.g., grading homeworks and tutorials, but not 
examinations, quizzes and term papers), and participating in tutorial or 
laboratory classes in the presence of Faculty Members (but not without 
them). Research Assistantship duties will include assisting faculty 
members in the conduct of research (e.g., related to sponsored research 
projects, but not related to consultancy projects). 
 
 
10. AMENDMENTS
Notwithstanding anything contained in this document, the
Senate of IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to modify/amend without 
notice, the curricula, procedures, requirements, and rules pertaining to 
its Ph.D. Programs.

Regulations for Ph.D. Programs 
2013