SOURCE_PDF: e64e575ddd3f_Curriculum-MTechMTech-PhDPhD-AIAY2021Onwards.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Course Booklet
for
and
Dual degree M.Tech. (AI) + PhD
Programs
offered by the
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
July 2021

Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a branch of computer science that aims to create machines to act with
higher levels of intelligence and emulate the human capabilities of sense, comprehend and act. The
core problems of artificial intelligence include programming computers for certain traits such as
Knowledge, Reasoning, Problem-solving, Perception, Learning and Planning. AI technology
development and applications are evolving rapidly with major implications for economies and
societies. As the demand for such applications increases, there is also an increasing need for building
the future workforce for AI. For developing the AI ecosystem, this program will be executed in
synergy with other M.Tech programs running in IIT Jodhpur, such as Sensors & IoT, Cyber-Physical
Systems, and Advanced Manufacturing and Design.
Objectives:
This M.Tech in AI programme will offer students with deep knowledge of both fundamental AI
technologies, as well as application-oriented AI. A student completing this program will be capable to
undertake careers in industry as well as academia. He/She will have the option to explore a variety of
domains including Manufacturing, Fintech, Healthcare, Agriculture/Food Processing, Education,
Retail/Customer Engagement, Human and Robot interaction/intelligent automation, Smart City , Aid
for Differently Abled/Accessibility Technology.
Expected Graduate Attributes:
After completing this programme, a student will be able to develop an ability to:
1.
Comprehend fundamental concepts and hands-on knowledge of the state-of-the-art AI
methodologies.
2.
Design and Build real-world AI systems for complex planning, decision making and learning,
solving application-specific problems, and to reason about them.
3.
Conceive, Design and Develop Intelligent multi-modal multi-sensory Man-Machine interfaces.
4.
Design, Develop and Deploy machine learning based applications using structured and
unstructured data (e.g., speech, text, images/videos).
5.
Understand and Assess reliability, dependability and trust-worthiness of AI-based systems.
6.
Design and develop AI applications for resource constrained environments.
7.
Adhere to evolving ethics and privacy laws across various domains and territories.
8.
Plan and manage technical projects.
Learning Outcome:
1.
Understand the fundamentals of Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Inference Engines,
Speech,
Vision,
Natural
Language
Understanding,
Robotics,
and Human Computer
2.
Unify the knowledge of human cognition, AI, Machine Learning and data engineering for
designing systems.
3.
Demonstrate hands-on knowledge of state-of-the-art AI tools for real-world problem-solving.
4.
Ability to develop real-time and robust AI-based systems with specific software, hardware
and data requirements.
5.
Build solutions to explore fully immersive computer-generated worlds (in VR), and overlay
computer graphics onto our view of our immediate environment (AR) along with smart,
cognitive functionality.
6.
Demonstrate advanced skills to comprehend and communicate effectively.

7.
Carry out projects using intelligent cognitive solutions provided by AI algorithms to get more
insights in stakeholder management, risk modeling, intelligent resource scheduling and
managing project constraints with intelligent use of data models.

Cat Code Course Title L-T-P Cr Cat Code Course Title L-T-P Cr
I Semester II Semester
C MAL7xx0 Optimization 2-0-0 2 C CSL7xx0 Deep Learning 3-0-0 3
C CSL7xx0 Artifciial Intelligence 3-0-0 3 C CSL7xx0 DL-Ops 0-0-2 1
C CSL7xx0 Advanced Data Structures
and Algorithms 2-0-0 2 C CSL7xx0 Core Bucket: Advanced Artifciial
Intelligence/ Autonomous
Systems 3-0-0 3
C CSP7xx0 Machine Learning 3-0-0 3 PE xxxxx Program Elective 2 3-0-0 3
C xxxxx ML-Ops 0-0-2 1 PE xxxxx Program Elective 3 3-0-0 3
PE xxxxx Program Elective 1 3-0-0 3 OE xxxxx Open Elective 1 3-0-0 3
NG xxxxx Technical Communication 1-0-0 1 NG xxxxx Ethics and Professional Life 1-0-0 1
Total Credits: 15 Total Credits: 17
Cat Code Course Title L-T-P Cr Cat Code Course Title L-T-P Cr
III Semester IV Semester
P CSDxx0 Major Project – Part 1 0-0-10 5 P CSDxx0 Major Project – Part 2 0-0-22 11
PE xxxxx Program Elective 4 3-0-0 3 PE xxxxx Program Elective 6 3-0-0 3
PE xxxxx Program Elective 5 3-0-0 3 NG xxxxx Intellectual Property 1-0-0 1
OE xxxxx Open Elective - 2 3-0-0 3
NG xxxxx System Engineering and
Project Management 1-0-0 1
Total Credits: 15 Total Credits: 15
Credit Distribution **List of Prescriptive Electives
1 Program Core 18 credits 1 Linear algebra for data science
2 Program Electives 18 credits 2 Statistics for Data Science
3 Open Electives 6 credits
4 Project 16 credits
5 Non-graded 4 credits
Total 62 credits
Course Structure for
M.Tech. (AI) Program and Dual degree M.Tech. (AI) + PhD
*The students should have satisfactory performance in the course in order to be eligible for internships and
placements opportunities from the institute.
**Depending on the background of students, courses from the prescriptive electives can be recommended for
students by the DRC.

Animation
Advanced Artifciial Intelligence
Advanced Computer Graphics
Advanced ML
Advanced Biometrics
Advancements in Computer Vision
Advanced Human-Machine Interaction
Algorithms for Big Data
Bio-image computing
Bioimaging
Blockchain
Cryptography
Computer Graphics
Computer Vision
Computational Learning Theory
Computer Architecture
Crowd-sourcing and Human Computing
Data Visualization
Dependable AI
Digital Image Analysis
Edge and Fog Computing
Ethics, Policy, Law and Regulation in AI
Embedded Systems
GPU Programming
Graph Theory and Applications
Graph Theoretic Algorithms Health Informatics
Information Retrieval
Introduction to AR and VR
Machine Learning with Big Data
Medical Image Analysis
Natural Language Processing
Neuromorphic Computing and Design
Principles of Biological Vision
Autonomous Systems
Reliability Engineering and Life Testing
Resource Constrained Artifciial Intelligence
Scalable Machine Learning
Selected Topics in AI - I/II/III
Selected Topics in CS - I/II/III
Selected Topics in ML - 1/2/3
Social Network Analysis
Social Networks (700)
Software and Data Engineering
Security and its Applications
Speech Understanding
Stream Analytics
Vehicular Ad-hoc Networks
Visual Perception
Virtualization and Cloud Computing
Advanced Data Structures and Algorithms (Fractal 3)
Adaptive Signal Processing
Advanced Digital Signal Processing
Compressive Sensing
Computational Imaging
Digital Signal Processing and Applications
Data Compression
Cyber Physical System Modelling and Simulation lab Digital Video Processing
Introduction to Haptics
Introduction to Cyber-Physical Systems
Machine Learning for Communication
Introduction to Smart Grid
Speech and Audio Signal Processing
Statistical Decision Theory
Wavelets
Robotics Planning and Decision Making for Robots
Bioinformatics Computational Biology
Program Electives for M.Tech. (AI) and
Dual Degree M.Tech. (AI) + Ph.D. Program

Advanced Topics in Computational PDE
AI for Finance
Computational fni ance
Computational Game Theory
Linear Algebra with Data Linear Algebra for Data Science
Statistics for Data Science
Stochastic Processes
Mathematical modeling and simulations
Quantum Information Processing Quantum Cryptography and Coding
Analysis of Social Media Networks
Human Factors in Interaction Design
Digital Methods and Tools Fundamentals of Digital Humanities: Fractal - 2 (Data
and Knowledge representations)
Cognitive Architectures
Introduction to Financial Engineering
Computational Neuroscience
Connectomics
Computational Cognition & Behavior Modelling Difefrential Geometry
AI for Risk Analysis Risk Management Analytics