SOURCE_PDF: ef3bb483c9ff_2025021775.pdf

GUIDELINES FOR INDIAN GOVERNMENT WEBSITES AND APPS

CONTENTS
Introduction
2.1 : Conformity to guidelines
2.2 : How to use GIGW
3.1 : Structure
3.2 : Quality
3.3 : Accessibility
3.4 : Cybersecurity
3.5 : Lifecycle management
3.6 : Risk factors and their mitigation
4.1 : Quality
4.2 : Accessibility
4.3 : Cybersecurity
4.4 : Lifecycle management
Scope and Objective
02
New features
03
Focus Areas
04
5.1 : Quality: Guidelines and attributes
5.2 : Accessibility: Guidelines and attributes
5.3 : Cybersecurity: Guidelines and attributes
5.4: Lifecycle management: Guidelines and attributes
Guidelines
05
Annexure I
Committee composition
Annexure II
Matrix for checking conformity
Annexure III
Important terms
Annexure IV
Role of Web Information Manager

Introduction
GUIDELINES FOR INDIAN GOVERNMENT 
WEBSITES AND APPS

1. Introduction
n recent years, digital technologies have 
increasingly contributed to economic 
growth and citizen empowerment. 
These 
technologies 
have 
become 
ubiquitous in everyday life and enable 
people to access various services from the 
comfort of their homes. Government has 
established web presence through multiple 
websites, web portals, web applications and 
mobile apps that ofer information and services 
to the public. However, inconsistency in 
conventions, 
layout 
standards, 
navigation 
strategies and technologies adopted can 
reduce the efectiveness of websites/apps.
In this context, the National Informatics Centre
(NIC) formulated the Guidelines for Indian 
Government Websites (GIGW) in the year 2009. 
GIGW aims to ensure quality and accessibility of 
government guidelines, by ofering guidance 
on desirable practices covering the entire 
lifecycle of websites, web portals and web 
applications, right from conceptualisation and 
design to their development, maintenance and 
management. 
The 
Department 
of 
Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances 
made the same a part of the Central Secretariat 
Manual of Ofce Procedure. 
The second version of GIGW (GIGW 2.0) was 
developed in 2019, taking into account 
feedback from and consultations with industry,
Introduction
1.0

1. Introduction
society and government organisations. GIGW 
2.0 took note of the standards evolved by 
international bodies like the world-wide web 
consortium (W3C) and advancements in 
technology. It also included guidance on mobile 
apps. 
This version is the third version of GIGW (GIGW 
3.0). While the earlier versions were formulated 
in-house with external inputs, GIGW 3.0 has 
been formulated jointly with Standardisation 
Testing 
and 
Quality 
Certifcation 
(STQC) 
Directorate of the Ministry of Electronics and 
Information Technology and Indian Computer 
Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), so that 
the experience of conformity with GIGW 
gathered by the STQC Directorate auditors and 
the cybersecurity experience and knowledge of 
CERT-In also inform the GIGW. As in earlier 
versions, GIGW 3.0 too has also been formulated 
in association with industry and experts.
The key thrust of GIGW 3.0 is on ofering specifc 
guidance to government organisations on how 
to improve the user interface and user 
experience (UI and UX), by incorporating 
features such as intuitive page loading (using AI 
and analytics) based on user journey and user 
profle, 
using 
state-of-the-art 
content 
management 
system 
(CMS), 
user-centric 
information 
architecture 
(IA), 
centralised 
monitoring dashboard to identify and provide 
alerts 
on 
non-conformity 
and 
technical 
enablement of all content creators and 
publishers.
GIGW 3.0 also signifcantly enhances the 
guidance on the accessibility and usability of 
mobile apps, especially by ofering specifc
guidance to government organisations on how 
to leverage public digital infrastructure devised 
for whole-of-government delivery of services, 
benefts and information. These cover aspects 
such as API level integration for use of 
integration with social media, India Portal, 
DigiLocker, Aadhaar-based identity, single 
sign-on, data sharing in open formats on the 
government’s data platform, government’s 
scheme discovery platform, government’s 
citizen engagement platform MyGov, AI-based 
Indian language translation tools, seamless 
content/data 
access 
across 
web-based 
solutions of government organisations. GIGW 
3.0 ofers upgraded guidelines on accessibility 
of websites and apps, with a view to make 
access to cyberspace more inclusive. In view of 
incorporation of comprehensive guidance in 
this version on apps as well (in addition to 
websites), this version is titled “Guidelines for 
Indian 
Government Websites 
and 
Apps”
. 
However, since the acronym GIGW gained wide 
currency, the acronym has been retained, with 
the letter “W” being signifying “Websites and 
Apps”
.
A chapter on cybersecurity, formulated by 
CERT-In, has also been incorporated so that 
GIGW can serve as a single point of reference on 
all the relevant aspects — quality, accessibility 
and security — relating to websites, web 
portals, web applications and mobile apps. 
Since cybersecurity requirements undergo 
continuous evolution in light of emerging 
threat 
scenarios, 
threat 
vectors 
and 
technologies, 
CERT-In 
continuously 
issues 
updated guidance and advisories to address the

same. Such guidance and advisories issued by 
CERT-In from time to time should be treated as 
updates to the guidance contained in the 
chapter on cybersecurity and any assessments 
or audit carried out with reference to GIGW 3.0 
should also be cognizant of the same. Further, 
while government organisations may continue 
to establish conformity with GIGW 3.0 by 
obtaining Certifed Quality Website (CQW) 
certifcation from the STQC Directorate, the 
certifcation of cybersecurity aspects by STQC 
may be done on the basis of the “safe to host” 
certifcate issued by the cybersecurity auditors 
empanelled by CERT-In/STQC or the auditors of 
STQC or NIC.
To make the guidelines more readily usable, 
which entity/person has a role in implementing 
a particular guideline has been identifed in 
every guideline. Thus, each guideline specifes 
whether the same is to be acted upon by the 
government organisation concerned or the 
developer or the evaluators.
The efectiveness of GIGW 3.0 in enhancing ease 
of living through various web-based initiatives 
of the government would depend on their 
efective implementation in letter and spirit by
all 
government 
organisations 
and 
their 
implementation 
and 
evaluation 
partners. 
Government organisations are expected to 
carefully assess their existing websites, web 
portals, web applications and mobile apps 
against GIGW 3.0, identify areas requiring 
improvement, 
draw 
up 
time 
bound 
implementation plans to achieve conformity 
with GIGW 3.0 and obtain CQW certifcation 
from the STQC Directorate. Similarly, websites, 
web portals, web applications and mobile apps 
that are at the design or implementation stage 
may also be reviewed to ensure that their 
design, architecture, development and scope of 
audit conform to GIGW 3.0 and requisite 
approvals, resources etc. are tied up to ensure 
this.
While GIGW embodies general guidance for 
government websites, web portals, web 
applications and mobile apps, particular 
website/app use cases may require adoption of 
higher 
norms 
and 
specifc 
technologies. 
Government organisations may keep this in 
mind 
while 
formulating 
their 
design, 
architecture and scope and may consult NIC in 
case they desire technical advice in the matter.
1. Introduction

Scope
and
objective
GUIDELINES FOR INDIAN GOVERNMENT 
WEBSITES AND APPS

2 Scope and objective
2.1 Conformity to guidelines
2.2 How to use GIGW

2. Scope and objective
his 
document 
recommends
policies and guidelines for Indian
Government 
websites 
and
Applications at any organisational
level and belonging to both
Central 
Government 
as 
well 
as 
State
Governments 
(including 
district
administrations and local governments) for
making 
Indian 
government 
websites/apps
user-centric, more user-friendly and secure.
Conformity with these guidelines will ensure a
high degree of consistency and uniformity in
the content coverage, presentation security
and accessibility and promote excellence in
government solutions in the Indian web space.
These guidelines address common issues and
practical 
challenges 
that 
government
organisations face during development and
management of their websites/apps. The
guidelines 
aim 
to 
assist 
government
organisations 
in 
ensuring 
that 
their
websites/apps conform to a consistently high
standard. This is expected to enhance the trust
level 
of 
the 
citizens 
while 
accessing
government 
information 
and 
availing 
of
services online.
Scope and objective
T

2. Scope and objective
These guidelines have been framed with the objective to make the government websites/apps
conform to the essential prerequisites of the UUU trilogy of usability, user-centricity and universal
These guidelines are based on international standards, including ISO 23026, W3C’s Web Content
Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG 2.1) Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, as well as the
Information Technology Act, 2000. Further, the long-standing experience of the authors in the
design, development and management of government websites/apps as well as their knowledge of
the ground realities and challenges faced by government organisations in developing and
managing their websites/apps, have helped signiﬁcantly in drafting these guidelines.
These guidelines also form the basis for obtaining the Website Quality Certiﬁcation from the STQC
Directorate. 
Details 
of 
the 
certiﬁcation 
scheme 
are 
available 
at
These guidelines are being circulated amongst all Indian government organisations at all levels
(Central, State and district/local). These should be followed and implemented on priority so that
the overall aim of making all Indian government websites/apps citizen-focused and user-friendly
may be realised.
Conformity to guidelines
2.1
Government organisations are expected to read, understand and implement these guidelines on all
of their web-based initiatives. In other words, all the websites/apps owned by government
organisations must comply with these guidelines. It is recommended that browser-based intranet
applications should also follow these guidelines. Depending upon their speciﬁc requirements,
government organisations may draw up short-term and long-term timebound implementation
plans for achieving conformity with these guidelines.
How to use GIGW 3.0
2.2

New 
features 
of GIGW 3.0
GUIDELINES FOR INDIAN GOVERNMENT 
WEBSITES AND APPS

3 New features of GIGW 3.0
3.1 Structure
3.2 Quality
3.3 Accessibility
3.4 Cybersecurity
3.5 Lifecycle management
3.6 Risk factors and their mitigation

3. New features of GIGW 3.0
he new version of the guidelines has several enhancements to make it more user 
centric, accessible, secure and at par with the global best practices and latest 
technological benchmarks. This version was reorganised to ease adoption and 
implementation and ensure wider conformity with GIGW. The following major 
enhancements have been included in the current version.
The new version of the guidelines is structured so as to reduce ambiguity and provide clarity on the 
roles and responsibilities of the implementers. The guidelines are structured under the following 
heads:
(a) Statement: Requirement or checkpoint to
meet the particular guideline.
(b) Beneﬁts: Positive outcomes achieved by
following the requirements, such as improving
user experience, accessibility, security and
trust-building with citizens.
(c) Government organisation action: Actions
pertaining 
to 
the 
owner 
government
organisation. These will be undertaken by the
respective WIM nominated by the organisation.
(d)
Developer action: Speciﬁc tasks and
actions a developer is responsible for in order
to comply with the guidelines and ensure the
website/app meets the desired standards of
quality, usability and effectiveness.
(e) Evaluator action: Refers to testing of the
website/app manually or with automated tools
to verify conformity with this checkpoint.
Structure
3.1

3. New features of GIGW 3.0
he key thrust of GIGW 3.0 is on 
enhancing user interface and user 
experience 
(UI 
and 
UX) 
of 
websites/apps 
and 
the 
implementation of user-centric 
information architecture (IA) to ease the user 
journey and provide content as per the user 
profle. To ensure the quality of content 
throughout the lifecycle of the website, GIGW 
guides on the provisioning of a centralised 
monitoring dashboard to identify the issues and 
provide alerts on non-conformity. Content
creators must also be supported with the right 
tools and technologies for accessible content 
creation.
GIGW 3.0 stresses on API level integration with 
platforms 
like 
India 
Portal, 
DigiLocker, 
Aadhaar-based identity, single sign-on, data 
and citizen engagement platforms, language 
translation tools to enable seamless content 
and data fow among the diferent web 
initiatives of government organisations. Social 
media integration also needs to be ensured.
Quality
3.2

3. New features of GIGW 3.0
ccessibility guidelines for web
content have been formulated by
W3C and are known as the web
content accessibility guidelines
(WCAG). GIGW 2.0 was compliant
with version 2.0 of WCAG, however in the
recent past WCAG has been upgraded to
version 2.1 which inherits its requirement from
WCAG 2.0 with additional guidelines to
improve accessibility guidance for three major
groups: users with cognitive or learning
disabilities, users with low vision and users with
disabilities on mobile devices.
GIGW 3.0 has been upgraded to include these
additional 
requirements 
to 
ensure 
that
websites/ apps can be used by the widest
possible audience. The current version ensures
conformity with Level AA of WCAG 2.1. In all 17
new success criteria have been added to the
Accessibility
3.3

3. New features of GIGW 3.0
chapter 
on 
cybersecurity, 
formulated by CERT-In, has also 
been incorporated which relates 
to websites, web portals, web 
applications and mobile apps. 
The 
chapter 
focuses 
on 
protecting web resources from unauthorised 
use, 
access, 
changes, 
destruction, 
or 
disruption. It also guides on the prevention of 
leakage of sensitive information like passwords, 
email addresses and credit card details, which 
cause both personal embarrassment and 
ﬁnancial risks.
It deals with all aspects of security starting 
from design, coding and implementation to 
testing 
and 
deployment, 
which 
prevent 
malfunctioning, phishing, cyber-crimes or 
cyberattacks to avoid data loss of the
organisations or users.
It is based on the best industry security 
practices and guidelines such as ISO 27001, the 
Application Security Veriﬁcation Standard 
(ASVS) issued by Open Web Application 
Security Project (OWASP), OWASP Top 10 
vulnerabilities and the Center for Internet 
Security (CIS) benchmarks as per the prevailing 
security policy.
This chapter must be read in conjunction with 
the guidance and advisories issued by CERT-In 
from time to time, which should be treated as 
updates to the guidance contained in the 
chapter. 
Government organisations must continue to 
obtain a “safe to host” certiﬁcate issued by the 
cybersecurity 
auditors 
empanelled 
by 
CERT-In/STQC or the auditors of STQC or NIC.
Cybersecurity
3.4

3. New features of GIGW 3.0
he chapter on lifecycle management deals with the policies, processes and plans that
the department has to put in place to guide the website management team in
maintain the quality, accessibility security of the website throughout its lifecycle. It
also stresses on the need for dedicated Web information Manager who is a senior
ofﬁcial from the department to head the website management team.
Lifecycle management
3.5

3. New features of GIGW 3.0
isk mitigation is one of the
important 
criteria 
behind 
the
formulation 
of 
any 
standard/
guideline. The new version of the
guidelines outlines the risk factors
associated with non-conformity with each
section of these guidelines. They have also
been mapped with each guideline and
presented in the conformity matrix.
Therefore, while the description of each
guideline informs the users about the beneﬁts
of conformance the conformity matrix will
make the users aware of the risk involved in
case, they fail to meet the guideline.
Risk factors and their mitigations
3.6

Focus 
areas

GUIDELINES FOR INDIAN GOVERNMENT 
WEBSITES AND APPS

4 Focus areas
4.1 Quality
4.2 Accessibility
4.3 Cybersecurity
4.4 Lifecycle management

4. Focus areas
Q1. Websites/apps can have inconsistent and outdated content on a website/app if the responsi-
bility and ownership of the website/app is not assigned to a person or team.
Q2. People may not be able to get the information about the website/app.
Quality
4.1
Risks associated with 
non-conformity with quality guidelines:
uality criteria for websites/apps are essential to ensure a 
website/app is trustworthy, reliable and engaging for 
users. A website/app should be easy to use, accessible to 
all users, load quickly, have high-quality content, be 
secure, optimised for mobile devices and have a visually appealing 
design. Meeting these criteria can help ensure a website's success 
and make it stand out from the millions of websites/apps available 
on the internet. By prioritising these criteria, owners can create a 
high-quality website/app that provides value to its users.

Accessibility
4.2
4. Focus areas
Q3. Without correct copyright policy, any information on the website/app may be copied, repro-
duced, republished, uploaded, posted, transmitted, or distributed without any consent.
Q4. The overall quality of a website’s content can be degraded if the authenticity and relevance
of the ‘linked’ information is not deﬁned through hyperlinking policy.
Q5. Without terms and conditions on websites/apps it is difﬁcult to uphold and maintain the trust
imposed on them by the users to the sites, the government websites/apps should not out rightly
‘disclaim’ the content of another government website/app.
Q6. If Content is not selected keeping the audience in mind, people from diverse professional,
educational and demographic backgrounds cannot easily comprehend the same.
Q7. People cannot get the right information from the website/app if Content is not up to date,
incomplete, inconsistent or scattered.
Q8. Users cannot identify an authenticated government website.
Q9. Websites/apps with poor design methodology may not be accessible with slow internet
Q10. Without feedback and help sections, users will not be able to participate in the improvement
of website/app quality and the government organisation will not be able to get the information
regarding problems faced by users.
Web accessibility means that people with
disabilities can also perceive, understand,
navigate and interact with the Web and that
they 
can 
contribute 
to 
the 
Web. 
It
encompasses all disabilities that affect access
to the Web, including visual, auditory, physical,
speech, cognitive and neurological disabilities.
The website/app should be designed and
developed in such a way that they are
accessible by all people, whatever may be their
or physical or mental ability.

International Guidelines and Standards 
(WCAG)
Legal provisions 
4.2.1
Risks associated with non-conformity 
with accessibility guidelines
4.2.3
4. Focus areas
The United Nations General Assembly adopted its Convention on the Rights of Persons with
Disabilities on the 13th day of December 2006. India is a signatory to the Convention and has
ratiﬁed the Convention on the 1st day of October 2007. To implement the Convention, India has
enacted the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 on 27th December, 2016. With regard to
ICT, one of the important provisions in the act is that all contents available in audio, print and
electronic media must be in accessible format.
W3C’s Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) covers a wide range of recommendations for
making Web content accessible. Implementing these guidelines will make content accessible to
persons with disabilities. Details are available at https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/.
GIGW has been developed in accordance with level AA of WCAG 2.1 which are the latest guidelines
on accessibility.
A1. Visually impaired people cannot access the content.
A2. People with epileptic may get seizures if the website/app has content which blink very fast.
A3. Hearing/Auditory impaired people cannot access the content.
A4. People with cognitive Disability cannot access the time dependent function/content which
does not have pause/extend/back/ forward options.
A5. People with Locomotor/Physical Disability cannot access the whole content present on the

Cybersecurity
4.3
4. Focus areas
A6. If the content is not robust enough to be interpreted reliably by a wide variety of user agents,
including assistive technologies, the content becomes inaccessible to large audiences suffering
from different impairments.
A7. People who do not understand English language cannot access website/app content and
A8. The government organisation concerned can face legal actions as per national and
international laws if the content of the website/app is not accessible.
A9. Labels or instructions are not provided when content requires user input, which jeopardises
the security or purpose of the content.
Cybersecurity is the activity of protecting
websites/apps from unauthorised use, access,
changes, 
destruction, 
or 
disruption.
website/app security can be a complex (or
even confusing) topic in an ever-evolving
landscape. GIGW provides a clear framework
for website/app owners seeking to mitigate risk
and apply security principles to their web
It is important to keep in mind that security is
never a set-it-and-forge-it solution but is a
continuous process that requires constant
assessment 
to 
reduce 
the 
overall 
risk.
Sometimes 
websites/apps 
become
unavailable due to denial-of-service attacks or
display 
modiﬁed 
information 
on 
their
homepages. Millions of passwords, email
addresses and credit card details have been
leaked into the public domain exposing
website/app 
users 
to 
both 
personal
embarrassment 
and 
ﬁnancial 
risks. 
The
purpose of website/app security is to prevent
such risks.
Website/app security requires vigilance in all
aspects starting from requirements through
design and implementation to testing and
deployment. Organisations should implement
appropriate security analysis, defences and
countermeasures 
for 
protection 
of 
a
website/app against malfunctioning, phishing,
cyber-crimes, or cyberattacks to avoid data
loss of the organisations or customers.

Risks associated with non-conformity 
with security guidelines
4.3.1
4. Focus areas
S1. Malicious users can deface the website.
S2. Any harmful actor may get access to conﬁdential information.
S3. The availability of the website/app can be hampered.
S4. The malicious user may change/modify the content on the website.
S5. Security failures typically lead to unauthorised information disclosure, modiﬁcation, or
destruction of all data or performing a business function outside the user's limits.
S6. A ﬁle upload ﬂaw allows an attacker to retrieve the password database. Security of web
applications determine the protection needs of data in transit and at rest. Attackers can steal such
information for example, passwords, credit card numbers, health records, personal information and
business secrets require extra protection, mainly if that data falls under privacy laws, Personal data
protection bill etc.
S7. An attacker monitors network trafﬁc (e.g., at an insecure wireless network), downgrades
connections from HTTPS to HTTP, intercepts requests and steals the user's session cookie. The
attacker then replays this cookie and hijacks the user's (authenticated) session, accessing or
modifying the user's private data. Instead of the above they could alter all transported data, e.g., the
recipient of a money transfer.
S8. Almost any source of data can be an injection vector, environment variables, parameters,
external and internal web services and all types of users. Injection ﬂaws occur when an attacker can
send hostile data to an interpreter.
S9. Attackers have to gain access to only a few accounts, or just one admin account to
compromise the system. Depending on the domain of the application, this may allow money
laundering, social security fraud and identity theft, or disclose legally protected highly sensitive
S10. Security ﬂaws can be used to extract data, execute a remote request from the server, scan
internal systems, perform a denial-of-service attack, as well as execute other attacks. The business
impact depends on the protection needs of all affected applications and data.
S11. Attackers acting as users or administrators, or users using privileged functions, can create,
access, update or delete every record.
S12. Security misconﬁguration frequently gives attackers unauthorised access to some system
data or functionality. Occasionally, such ﬂaws result in a complete system compromise.

Lifecycle management
4.4
S13. The impact of XSS is moderate for reﬂected and DOM XSS and severe for stored XSS, with
remote code execution on the victim’s browser, such as stealing credentials, sessions, or delivering
malware to the victim.
S14. While some known vulnerabilities lead to only minor impacts, some of the largest breaches to
date have relied on exploiting known vulnerabilities in components.
S15. Most successful attacks start with vulnerability probing. Allowing such probes to continue can
raise the likelihood of a successful exploit to nearly 100%.
4. Focus areas
Maintaining a website/app is just as important
as developing it because a website/app is a
dynamic entity that requires regular updates
and monitoring to remain relevant, functional
and secure. Without proper maintenance, a
website/app 
can 
become 
vulnerable 
to
security breaches, performance issues and
content that is outdated or irrelevant, which
can negatively impact the user experience and
drive 
away 
potential 
visitors. 
Regular
maintenance 
can 
help 
prevent 
security
breaches, ensure functionality, keep content
up-to-date and optimise the website/app for
search engines. Therefore, website/app life
cycle 
management, 
including 
ongoing
maintenance, is crucial for the success and
longevity of a website.
After 
launching 
a 
website, 
ongoing
maintenance 
is 
essential 
to 
keep 
the
website/app 
up-to-date 
and 
functioning
properly. This involves updating website/app
content, monitoring performance, ensuring
security, ﬁxing bugs and errors and optimising
the 
website/app 
for 
search 
engines.
Establishing policies and procedures for
website/app 
maintenance 
is 
important,
including a change management process,
backup and disaster recovery plans, security
policies and a content management plan.
Regularly 
monitoring 
the 
website's
performance, user engagement and search
engine optimization is crucial to ensure that
the website/app is meeting its objectives and
to identify areas for improvement.
The risks already identiﬁed under ‘Quality’ are
also associated with the non-conformity of the
Lifecycle Management guidelines.

Guidelines


5 Guidelines
5.1 Quality: Guidelines and attributes
5.2 Accessibility: Guidelines and attributes
5.3 Cybersecurity: Guidelines and attributes
5.4 Lifecycle management: Guidelines and attributes

5. Guidelines
Quality
5.1
Statement: Association to government is demonstrated by the use 
of emblem/logo in proper ratio and colour, prominently displayed 
on the homepage of the website or homescreen of the app.
Beneﬁt: Reassures visitors that the government website/app is authentic and trustworthy.
Moreover, the government organisation’s brand identity is reinforced.
Government organisation action: Government organisations must select proper visual identity
elements like emblems or logos to highlight government ownership of the website/app. The State
emblem of India must be displayed on the homepages of the websites and homescreens of the
apps of Central Government Ministries/Departments. State Governments should display their
Emblems and public Sector organisations and autonomous bodies should display their ofﬁcial logo
on the homepage of the website or homescreen of the app to reinforce their identity
Developer action: Visual Identity elements (logos and emblem) must prominently stand out on the
page, in a proper ratio and colour. Developers must ensure that all logo images are accompanied by
proper alternate text so that the screen reader users may be informed of the same. The usage of
the State Emblem of India must comply with the provisions of the State Emblem of India
(Prohibition of Improper Use) Act, 2005.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall manually test the website/app for verifying conformity with

5. Guidelines
Statement: Ownership information is displayed on the 
homepage/homescreen and on all important entry 
pages/screens of the website/app and each subsequent page/
screen is a standalone entity in terms of ownership, 
navigation and context of content.
Beneﬁt: Helps to build trust in the visitors and reinforces the government organisation’s branding.
Also, search engines use the ownership information to verify the legitimacy of the websites/apps
and accord higher ranks in search results.
Government organisation action: Provide complete ownership information for publishing on the
website
Developer action: Ensure display of ownership information, either in the header or footer, on the
homepage/homescreen and all-important entry pages/screens of the website/app.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall manually test the website/app for verifying conformity with
Statement: Source of all documents, not owned by the dept. 
that have been reproduced in part or full, is mentioned.
Beneﬁt: Audiences can rely upon the credibility of authentic information being published by the
government organisation. Additionally, giving the credit to the authoring organisation helps
establish an environment of respect for intellectual property of other organisations and
discourages plagiarism.
Government organisation action: If any published government document/report is being
reproduced on the government organisation’s website/app, whether as excerpts or in full, the
organisation must cite the source of the same (complete title of the document/report, along with
the name of the owner organisation and the year of publication).
Developer action: Ensure provision of appropriate data input ﬁelds in the CMS to input the source
(owner organisation of each published document/report and the year of publication).
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall manually test the website/app for verifying conformity with

5. Guidelines
Statement: Due permissions have been obtained for 
publishing any content protected by copyright.
Beneﬁt: Publishing copyrighted information after obtaining due permission protects the
government organisation from legal issues, establishes an environment of respect for information
copyrighted by others in addition to discouraging plagiarism.
Government organisation action: The government organisation must follow proper procedures to
obtain the permission, prior to publishing any information that is copyrighted by any third party.
Developer action: None.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall check the implementation of copyright policy in backend
Statement: Homepage/homescreen of the website/app
displays the last updated/ reviewed date.
Beneﬁt: Providing information about the last updated/reviewed date helps visitors to build trust
that the government organisation is providing updated information. Also, search engines accord a
higher ranking to web sites that publish updated content, so they will automatically appear
amongst the top-ranking sites on search results.
Government organisation action: Publish regular and updated content for publishing on the
website/app and review the content of the website/app as per the content review policy.
Developer action: Ensure publishing, on the homepage/homescreen and every important entry
page/screen, of the date on which the information was posted on the website/app, or the date on
which the content was last reviewed and/or modiﬁed.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall manually test the
website/app for verifying conformity with this.

5. Guidelines
Statement: Complete information including title, size, format and 
usage instructions is provided for all downloadable 
material.
Beneﬁt: Downloading material from the Internet can be an expensive and time-consuming
exercise. Therefore, government websites/apps must prov ide Information that will help visitors
determine whether they want to access downloadable material. Providing all required information
about downloadable material helps improve clarity & accessibility, especially for those using
assistive technologies.
Government organisation action: Provide all necessary content details to the content team. The
total size of the ﬁle should be kept to a minimum to ensure acceptable download times for all users,
especially those that do not have high-speed, reliable Internet connections. Prior to making
downloadable material available for visitors, government organisations should check for viruses
and malware.
Developer action: Ensure that there is a mechanism in the CMS to input the following information
about the downloadable material:
(a) Self-explanatory title of the document/ﬁle;
(b) Download and use instructions (install, open, view); and
(c) File format and ﬁle size.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall manually test the website/app for verifying conformity with
Statement: In respect of each circular, notiﬁcation, document, 
form, scheme, service and recruitment notice, the following 
should be clearly listed on the website/app:
(a) Complete title;
(b) Language (if other than English);
(c) Purpose/procedure to apply (as applicable); and
(d) Validity (where applicable).
Beneﬁt: Details such as the correct title, language, validity, purpose, procedures would lead to an
accurate search output for information on that scheme/service/recruitment notice etc and it
would be easy for the users to locate & use these documents, schemes, services etc.

5. Guidelines
Government organisation action: The attributes as speciﬁed in the guideline must be provided
with each Circular, Notiﬁcation, Document, Form, Scheme, Service and Recruitment notice
Developer action: Ensure provision of all ﬁelds necessary for publishing of all information about
documents, schemes, services, along with the necessary archival procedures to archive the
information once the validity expires.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall manually test the website/app for verifying conformity with
Statement: All outdated Announcements, Tenders, Recruitment 
notices, News and Press Releases are removed from 
the website/app and/or placed into the archives 
as per the archival policy
Beneﬁt: Outdated and irrelevant content must not be served to the visitors and there should be a
proper archival section to access the outdated content.
Government organisation action: The government organisation must ensure that the expiry date
is provided for all time sensitive content
Developer action: Ensure that the mechanism is in place to automatically remove the content
after the expiry date or move it to the archives as per the approved Archival Policy.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall manually test the website/app for verifying conformity with

5. Guidelines
Statement: All information about the government organisation 
which is useful to users is present in the ‘About us’ section and a 
mechanism is in place to keep the information up to date.
Beneﬁt: Helps the visitor access all information about the government organisation, useful for the
Government organisation action: The government organisation must prepare the content
describing itself for the About us section.
Developer action: Ensure the website/app has an About us page.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall manually test the website/app for verifying the content as
required by this checkpoint is present on the website. The evaluator shall verify the conformity to
the mechanism required in the checkpoint through backend audit.
Statement: Website/app has a ‘Contact us’ page providing 
complete contact details of important functionaries in the 
government organisation and this is linked from the homepage/ 
homescreen and all relevant places on the website/app.
Beneﬁt: Enables users to contact any government organisation or entity to ask questions, get
information, seek clariﬁcations and resolve problems.
Government organisation action: Provide complete contact information on the Contact us or
Who’s who sections or on the Directory page, including the telephone numbers/fax numbers,
postal address and email addresses, along with the timings, if any, earmarked for personal/public
Developer action: Ensure that the CMS has the provision to publish
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall manually test the
website/app for verifying conformity with this.

5. Guidelines
Statement: Feedback is collected through online forms and a 
mechanism is in place to ensure timely response to 
feedback/queries received through the website.
Beneﬁt: Helps the visitors to express their ideas, satisfaction levels, suggestions etc. that can be
valuable inputs for enhancement of future versions of the website. Additionally, government
organisations can learn meaningful insights about the usage pattern of the website, which can
further help to focus on near and far term enhancements.
Government organisation action: Ensure feedback received is processed on a regular basis.
Developer action: Ensure providing the mechanism to collect structured feedback from visitors
using Forms. Also, ensure responding to the feedback explaining how it will be processed.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall manually test the website/app for verifying that the
feedbacks are collected through online forms at the website. The evaluator shall verify the
conformity to the mechanism required in the checkpoint through backend audit.
Statement: Website/app provides a prominent link to the
‘National Portal’ from the homepage and webpages 
belonging to the ‘National Portal’ load in the new browser 
window.
Beneﬁt: india.gov.in, the National Portal of India (NPI) is a single window source for access to all
information and services being provided by the various constituents of the Indian Government to
its citizens and other stakeholders. Linking to the NPI will help visitors ﬁnd information or services
they could not ﬁnd easily on a government organisation website.
Government organisation action: The government organisation website/app must provide a
prominent link to the National Portal from the homepage and other important pages of citizen’s
Developer action: Ensure that the government website/app provides a prominent link to the
National Portal from the homepage and other important pages of citizen’s interest. Also, the
hyperlinked pages belonging to the National Portal must load into a newly opened browser window
of visitors.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall manually test the website/app for verifying conformity to this

5. Guidelines
Statement: The website has been tested on multiple browsers. 
Hindi/Regional language fonts have been tested on popular 
browsers for any inconsistency (loss of layout).
Beneﬁt: Visitors can easily read content and interact with the website in their native language, thus
improving the website’s accessibility and reach.
Government organisation action: Government organisations must ensure the accuracy of the 
translated content.
Developer action: Ensure use of Unicode characters when using Hindi/Regional language fonts &
also, testing of the website on multiple browsers and versions of browsers, operating systems,
connection speeds and screen resolutions to ensure access by all and no loss of layout.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall manually test the website on different browsers for verifying
conformity to this checkpoint.
Statement: The website/app has a readily available Help
section linked from all pages of the website.
Beneﬁt: Allows a pleasant experience while browsing the website.
Government organisation action: None
Developer action: Must include Help content which allows for an easy and convenient navigation
for the visitor to the website/app (e.g., online help, how to open ﬁles of certain formats, how to
access audio/video on the portal, kinds of plug-ins required etc.). Further, the content which
clariﬁes the purpose of the website/app as well as its policies for the visitors should also be
included in this category. Help should be linked from all pages of the website/app and should be
displayed in a consistent location across the website.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall manually test the website/app for verifying conformity to this

5. Guidelines
Statement: Website uses Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to 
control layouts/styles and incorporates responsive design features 
to ensure that the interface displays well on 
different screen sizes.
Beneﬁt: For the visitors, a consistent look and feel of the website’s User Interface (UI)and its
availability on all devices and screen sizes is important. For the government organisation and
developers, CSS offers ease of making global changes to the layout and design in one place instead
of having to do so on individual pages. Different presentations of the content (for example a large
text alternative for visually impaired users) can be achieved using different style sheets. The
document code is also reduced in size and complexity since it does not need to contain any
presentational markup.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Use CSS for controlling content layout and presentation, in addition to offering
a responsive interface for visitors. Also, ensure testing on different devices.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall test the website by using browser extension/ tool for verifying
conformity to this checkpoint.

5. Guidelines
Statement: Website is readable even when style sheets are 
switched off or not loaded.
Beneﬁt: Helps provide readable content not only for visually challenged users who may be using
screen readers, but also in some instances where the style sheets may not load swiftly or load at
all due to reasons such as slow connections, technical errors, or due to use of some incompatible
mobile devices.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Ensure testing on different devices to ensure the website remains easily
readable even on turning off style sheets.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall test the website by using browser extension/ tool for verifying
conformity to this checkpoint.
Statement: Proper page title and language attribute along with 
metadata for page like keywords and description are 
appropriately included.
Beneﬁt: Once details such as government organisation name, services offered, schemes, location,
help ensure enhanced accessibility, especially for those with screen readers who rely on things
such as page titles, structured page headings and lists. Additionally, search engines rank such sites
higher in search results.
Government organisation action: The government organisation must provide the relevant
metadata for each page.
Developer action: Must ensure mentioning all necessary metadata in the <head> portion of the
html page from where it is read by search engines.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall test the website by using browser extension tools for verifying
conformity to this checkpoint.

5. Guidelines
Statement: Minimum content as prescribed in the guidelines 
is present on the homepage/homescreen and all 
subsequent pages/screens.
Beneﬁt: The homepage/homescreen being the primary entry page to the entire content of the
website/app should allow visitors to get access to the most important content elements from the
homepage/homescreen itself. Often, visitors may use a search engine for ﬁnding some information
and, therefore, directly reach a subsequent page/screen of the website/app instead of the
homepage/homescreen, therefore, it helps to have some minimum content on each page/screen
of website/app, e.g., self-explanatory title, link to homepage/homescreen, ownership, link to
Contact us etc.
Government organisation action: The government organisation must ensure the availability of:
Minimum content on the homepage/homescreen of a website/app
(a) Government organisation name (alternatively, the name of the project, service etc.
as applicable);
(b) State emblem of India/Logo (as applicable);
(c) About the government organisation (including its main activities and functions);
(d) Link to all the major modules/sections of the site;
(e) Link to all the citizen services offered by the government organisation;
(f) Link to the ‘Contact us’ page of the website/app;
(g) Link to the “Feedback” page;
(h) Link to national portal;
(i) Search/Site Map; and
(j) Terms and conditions of use.
Minimum Content on subsequent pages/screens of a website/app
(a) Self-explanatory title of the page/screen;
(b) Link to the homepage/homescreen;
(c) Link to the parent section/top module of the individual page/screen;
(d) Ownership (name of the government organisation owning the website/app); and
(e) Link to the “Contact us” page.
Developer action: Ensure providing the minimum content as prescribed by the GIGW guidelines
referred on the homepage/homescreen as well as the subsequent pages/screens.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall manually test it for verifying conformity to this checkpoint.

5. Guidelines
Statement: Data tables have been provided with necessary 
tags/markup
Beneﬁt: Proper use of markup in tables helps with accessibility, ensuring assistive technology
users can easily navigate and comprehend the tabular content.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Avoid use of tables for page layout. Proper tags and markup must be provided
to identify row and column headers and associate data cells and header cells.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall test the website by using browser extension/ tool for verifying
conformity to this checkpoint.
Statement: Content of the web page prints correctly on an 
A4 size paper
Beneﬁt: Offers enhanced accessibility to visitors who may prefer the print format.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Ensure testing with font properties such that the text must print correctly on an
A4 size paper.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall manually test the website for verifying conformity to this
Statement: Website is in the nic.in or gov.in domain. Educational 
Institutions and Research and Academic Institutions, which are 
eligible for registration under ‘gov.in’ may use ‘edu.in’, ‘res.in’ 
or ‘ac.in’ domains
Beneﬁt: The URL or the Web Address of any Government website is a strong indicator of its
authenticity and status as being ofﬁcial. Use of gov.in or nic.in domain inspires trust in the visitor
that the website being visited is authentic.
Government organisation action: The government organisations must obtain ‘gov.in’ or ‘nic.in’
domain exclusively allotted and restricted to government websites. The domain name conventions,
as speciﬁed in the ‘.IN Registration’ policy, should be followed while registering a ‘gov.in’ Domain
Name. For detailed information and step-by-step procedure on how to register a gov.in Domain
visit http://registry.gov.in.

5. Guidelines
Developer action: None.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall manually test the website for verifying conformity to this
Statement: API integration with key government platforms (India 
Portal, DigiLocker, Aadhaar, Single-Sign-On, MyGov, Data Platform, 
MyScheme) and similar websites of the government organisation 
must be enabled for seamless exchange of Information
and data.
Beneﬁt: Integration with other websites and platforms provides the following beneﬁts to the
government organisation:
(a) Data/Information is consistent as it is being pushed from a single source to all the
(b) It can be managed and maintained easily and is well synchronised across all the interfaces;
(c) Avoids duplication of effort content creation; and
(d) Ensures standardisation and security, e.g., use of DigiLocker, Aadhaar authentication or
single sign-on ensures that any technical, functional or security enhancements are pushed to all
the websites/apps in real time.
Citizens beneﬁt by having a single identity which can be used across multiple websites/apps and
a single repository of documents. They do not have to comprehend the same information and
data from multiple sources.
Government organisation action: The government organisation must identify the websites
and platforms with which the integration needs to be established as per their requirement
so that no duplication efforts are being made. They must provide required APIs and
Web Services to the developer/entity to enable integration.
Developer action: Developers must ensure that the integration is done as per the best
practices pertaining to security and technology.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall manually test the website for verifying conformity to
this checkpoint.

5. Guidelines
Statement: The government organisation must ensure a consistent 
user experience and visual identities across all its 
websites/apps.
Beneﬁt: Maintaining consistency enhances the ease of use for the visitors. If the visitors have
browsed one website/app then the learning curve of using the other websites/apps of the
government organisation is greatly reduced and visitors can interact and ﬁnd information easily
and quickly. Maintaining a consistent visual identity reinforces the authenticity and enhances the
trust level of the visitors.
Government organisation action: The government organisations must ensure a consistent
information architecture, navigation scheme, terminology and visual branding (logos, etc.) across
the web initiatives of all organisations under them.
Developer action: Developers must create templates with common Information Architecture (IA),
conﬁgurable components and neat user interface, which can be implemented on different
websites/apps to achieve consistency.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall manually test the website for verifying conformity to this
Statement: Websites/apps must provide integration with 
popular social media.
Beneﬁts: Users and the government organisation are increasingly using social media to quickly
connect, share information and even provide services. Social media platforms also provide an easy
means of two-way communication between the user and government organisation. Younger
generation also ﬁnds it easy to connect through social media on smart devices rather than the web
Government organisation action: 
The 
government 
organisations 
must 
identify 
the
information/content that needs to be pushed to the social media platforms directly from the
websites/apps. The content must also be written in a way that is suitable for social media.
Developer action: Developer must ensure a two-way integration by providing a mechanism to
push content from the website/app to the social media platform and also integrate the social
media content into the website/app.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall manually test the website for verifying conformity to this

5. Guidelines
Statement: The language is free from spelling and 
grammatical errors.
Beneﬁt: The language used in a government website/app is very important for ensuring effective
communication with the target audiences. When website/app visitors get clear and error free
content, it raises the trust level of the citizens towards the government organisation.
Government organisation action: Check the content manually or with automated spelling and
grammar tools before publishing.
Developer action: Ensure provision of a CMS that enables publishing of error free content both
with respect to grammar and spellings.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall test the website/app by using a tool for verifying conformity
to this checkpoint. The evaluator shall check in the backend audit for implementation of the
mechanism by verifying documented records.

5. Guidelines
Accessibility
5.2
he Success criteria under this section have been adopted 
from W3C Web content accessibility guidelines 
(https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/). Developers are advised 
to refer to the W3C website for the complete description 
and techniques to meet the success criteria.
Statement: All non-text content that is presented to the user has a 
text alternative that serves the equivalent purpose, except 
for the situations listed below:
(a) Controls, Input: If non-text content is a control or accepts user input, then it has a name
that describes its purpose (Refer to Success Criterion 4.1.2 for additional requirements for
controls and content that accepts user input);
(b) Time-Based Media: If non-text content is time-based media, then text alternatives at
least provide descriptive identiﬁcation of the non-text content (Refer to Guideline 1.2 for
additional requirements for media);

5. Guidelines
(d) Sensory: If non-text content is primarily intended to create a speciﬁc sensory
experience, then text alternatives at least provide descriptive identiﬁcation of the non-text
(e) CAPTCHA: If the purpose of non-text content is to conﬁrm that content is being
accessed by a person rather than a computer, then text alternatives that identify and
describe the purpose of the non-text content are provided and alternative forms of
CAPTCHA using output modes for different types of sensory perception are provided to
accommodate different disabilities; and
(f) Decoration, Formatting, Invisible: If non-text content is pure decoration, is used only for
visual formatting, or is not presented to users, then it is implemented in a way that it can be
ignored by assistive technology.
Beneﬁt: Conformity makes information conveyed by non-text content accessible through the use
of a text alternative. For example, a person who cannot see a picture can have the text alternative
read aloud using synthesised speech. A person who cannot hear an audio ﬁle can have the text
alternative displayed so that he or she can read it.
Government organisation action: A meaningful explanatory text equivalent must be speciﬁed for
images and other non-text content. The description should summarise the content or purpose of
the image. For example, to use the description ‘Picture’ to explain a graphic does not serve any
Developer action: For images text equivalent can be provided by using the ALT attribute. The ALT
text for an image is displayed before the image is fully downloaded. It is the main source of image
information for users of text-only browsers, users of browsers with graphics turned off and users
who are sight impaired. The following situations are exceptions:
(a)
If the non-text content is a control or accepts input e.g., a submit button then it must
have a name describing the purpose of the control;
(b)
If the non-text content is time-based media (audio/video) then the text equivalent
provides a descriptive identiﬁcation of the same;
(c)
If non-text content is a test or exercise that would be invalid if presented in text, then
text alternatives at least provide descriptive identiﬁcation of the non-text content;
(d)
If non-text content is primarily intended to create a speciﬁc sensory experience,
then text alternatives at least provide descriptive identiﬁcation of the non-text content;
(e)
CAPTCHA: If the purpose of non-text content is to conﬁrm that content is being
accessed by a person rather than a computer, then text alternatives that identify and
describe the purpose of the non-text content are provided and alternative forms of
CAPTCHA using output modes for different types of sensory perception are provided to
accommodate different disabilities; and
(f)
If non-text content is pure decoration, is used only for visual formatting, or is not

5. Guidelines
presented to users, then it is implemented in a way that it can be ignored by assistive
technology (by using blank alt attribute).
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 1.1.1
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually and by using the accessibility extension to
browser/ accessibility plug-in/web accessibility tool to check the conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: For pre-recorded audio-only and pre-recorded 
video-only media, the following are true, except when the audio 
or video is a media alternative for text and is clearly 
labelled as such:
(a) Pre-recorded Audio-only: An alternative for time-based media is provided that
presents equivalent information for pre-recorded audio-only content; and
(b) Pre-recorded Video-only: Either an alternative for time-based media or an audio track
is provided that presents equivalent information for pre-recorded video-only content.
Beneﬁt: The intent of this Success Criterion is to make information conveyed by pre-recorded
audio-only and pre-recorded video-only content available to all users. Alternatives for time-based
media that are text based make information accessible because text can be rendered through any
sensory modality (for example, visual, auditory or tactile) to match the needs of the user.
Government organisation action: Create the alternate for time-based media, i.e, transcript in
case audio only and transcript or audio track in case of video only content. Captions are not
needed when the synchronised media is, itself, an alternate presentation of information that is also
presented via text on the Web page
Developer action: Make provision to provide alternatives for time-based media.
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 1.2.1
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually to check the conformity of this checkpoint.

5. Guidelines
Statement: Captions are provided for all pre-recorded audio 
content in synchronised media, except when the media is a 
media alternative for text and is clearly labelled as such
Beneﬁt: This enables people who are deaf or hard of hearing to watch synchronised media
Government organisation action: The government organisations must create captions to provide
the part of the content available via the audio track. Captions not only include dialogue but identify
who is speaking and include non-speech information conveyed through sound, including
meaningful sound effects.
Developer action: Ensure that the captions are available with audio content.
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 1.2.2
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test the it manually to check the conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: An alternative for time-based media or audio 
description of the pre-recorded video content is provided 
for synchronised media, except when the media is a 
media alternative for text and is clearly labelled as such.
Beneﬁt: provides people who are blind or visually impaired access to the visual information in a
synchronised media presentation
Government organisation action: The government organisations must provide audio description
of the video content. The audio description augments the audio portion of the presentation with
the information needed when the video portion is not available. Alternatively, all of the information
in the synchronised media (both visual and auditory) may be provided in text form. If all of the
information in the video track is already provided in the audio track, no audio description is
Developer action: Developer must provide provision for publishing the alternative for time-based
media or audio description of the pre-recorded video content
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 1.2.3
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test the it manually to check the conformity of this checkpoint.

5. Guidelines
Statement: Captions are provided for all live audio content 
in synchronised media.
Beneﬁts: Enables people who are deaf or hard of hearing to watch real-time presentations.
Government organisation action: The government organisation must provide captions for live
audio content.
Developer action: Provide provision to publish captions
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 1.2.4
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually to check the conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: Audio description is provided for all 
pre-recorded video content in synchronised media.
Beneﬁts: Provides people who are blind or visually impaired access to the visual information in a
synchronised media presentation. During existing pauses in dialogue, audio description provides
information about actions, characters, scene changes and on-screen text that are important and
are not described or spoken in the main soundtrack.
Government organisation action: Provide Audio description of pre-recorded video content
Developer action: Provide provision to publish audio description
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 1.2.5
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually a check the conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: Information, structure and relationships 
conveyed through presentation can be programmatically 
determined or are available in text.
Beneﬁts: Sighted users perceive structure and relationships through various visual cues present
on a page (page headings are in a larger and bold font; list items are preceded by a bullet; form
ﬁelds may be positioned as groups that share text labels; a different background colour may be
used to indicate related items and so on). However, visually challenged users cannot take
advantage of these cues. It must be ensured that these information and relationships are
preserved even when the presentation format changes. (For example, when the content is read by
a screen reader or CSS is turned off or replaced).

5. Guidelines
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Developers must ensure that information and relationships that are implied by
visual or auditory formatting are preserved when the presentation format changes. For example,
when the content is read by a screen reader or when a user style sheet is substituted for the style
sheet provided by the author. For example, a form contains several required ﬁelds. The labels for
the required ﬁelds are displayed in red. In addition, at the end of each label is an asterisk character
(*). The instructions for completing the form indicate that "all required ﬁelds are displayed in red
and marked with an asterisk *", followed by an example.
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 1.3.1
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually and by using the accessibility extension to
browser/accessibility plug-in/web accessibility tool/assistive technology to check the conformity
of this checkpoint.
Statement: When the sequence in which content is presented 
affects its meaning, a correct reading sequence can be 
programmatically determined.
Beneﬁts: This helps people who rely on assistive technologies like screen readers because the
meaning evident in the sequencing of the information in the visual presentation will be the same
when the content is presented in spoken form. This also preserves the meaning of the page when
the CSS is turned off or not supported.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Provide a meaningful reading sequence.
Note: Developers must keep in mind that a sequence is meaningful if change of order shall impact
its meaning. Two independent content items like two separate articles in a page may be placed in
any sequence without affecting the meaning. Similarly, the navigation block and the content area
may be placed in any sequence without affecting their meaning. HTML text is always a meaningful
sequence. Tables and ordered lists are meaningful sequences, but unordered lists are not. It must
be clear that providing a particular linear order is only required where it affects meaning There may
be more than one order that is "correct" and only one correct order needs to be provided.
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 1.3.2
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually and by using the accessibility extension to
browser/accessibility plug-in/web accessibility tool/assistive technology to check the conformity
of this checkpoint.

5. Guidelines
Statement: Instructions provided for understanding and operating 
content do not rely solely on sensory characteristics of 
components such as shape, colour, size, visual location, 
orientation, or sound.
Beneﬁt: Many users including the visually challenged cannot perceive shape, size or use information
about location or orientation. For such users the content that relies on knowledge of the shape or
position of objects becomes inaccessible (for example, “round button” or “button to the right”).
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Provide additional information in content that relies solely on sensory
characteristics of components such as shape, size, visual location, orientation, or sound. This can be
done by providing textual identiﬁcation of items that otherwise rely only on sensory information to
be understood; for example, a round button is provided on a form to submit the form and move onto
the next step. The button is labelled with the text "go." The instructions state, "to submit the form
press the round button labelled go''. This includes both shape and textual information to locate the
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 1.3.3
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually and by using the assistive technology to check
the conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: Content does not restrict its view and operation to a 
single display orientation, such as portrait or landscape,
unless a speciﬁc display orientation is essential.
Beneﬁt: This Success Criterion requires content to display in the orientation preferred by the user
and not restrict the orientation. This improves accessibility for users who rely on a speciﬁc
orientation and promotes ﬂexibility in technology design.
Users with dexterity impairments, who have a mounted device will be able to use the content in
their ﬁxed orientation.
Users with low vision will be able to view content in the orientation that works best for them, for
example to increase the text size by viewing content in landscape.

5. Guidelines
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Developers must ensure that content displays in the orientation
(portrait or landscape) preferred by the user. Content does not restrict its view and operation to a
single display orientation, such as portrait or landscape, unless a speciﬁc display orientation is
essential. Examples of situations where a speciﬁc display orientation is essential could be a:
(a) Banking app that requires the device to be in landscape mode to capture an image of a check
easily and accurately for deposit; and
(b) Piano app that requires the device to be in landscape mode to allow room for enough of the
piano keys to be functionally usable. Since a piano app is emulating a physical piano keyboard that
needs to retain relative physical characteristics between keys, either too few keys would be
available, or the keys would be much too narrow.
Reference: WCAG 2.1 -1.3.4
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually and by using the accessibility extension to
browser/accessibility plug-in/web accessibility tool/assistive technology to check the conformity
of this checkpoint.
Statement: The purpose of each input ﬁeld collecting information 
about the user can be programmatically determined 
when:
(a) The input ﬁeld serves a purpose identiﬁed in the Input Purposes for User Interface
Components section; and
(b The content is implemented using technologies with support for identifying the
expected meaning for form input data.
Beneﬁt: People with language and memory related disabilities or disabilities that affects executive
function and decision-making beneﬁt from the browser auto-ﬁlling personal information (such as
name or address). People with learning disability can employ assistive technology which adds icons
to input ﬁelds to communicate the purpose of the ﬁelds visually and people with motor
impairments also beneﬁt from reducing the need for manual input when ﬁlling out forms.
Government organisation action: None
Developer action: Developers must ensure that the purpose of a form input collecting information
about the user can be programmatically determined, so that user agents can extract and present
this purpose to users using different modalities. Developers can use autoﬁll attribute to
programmatically link a pre-deﬁned and published taxonomic term to the input, so that the inputs
can also be machine-interpreted.

5. Guidelines
Reference: WCAG 2.1-1.3.5
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually and by using the Accessibility extension to
browser/accessibility plug-in/web accessibility tool/assistive technology to check the conformity
of this checkpoint.
Statement: Colour is not used as the only visual means of 
conveying information, indicating an action, prompting a 
response, or distinguishing a visual element.
Beneﬁt: Conformity to this guidelines beneﬁts user who have difﬁculty perceiving colour
e.g. People with partial sight or older users who do not see colour well. If a page has information that
is conveyed by colour differences like: “required ﬁelds are red”, “error is shown in red” and “January
sales are in red, July are in blue” then these users may not be able to access such information.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Developers must ensure that when colour differences are used to convey
information, such as required form ﬁelds, the information conveyed by the colour differences are
also conveyed explicitly in text. Developers must provide a redundant visual cue for users who may
not be able to discern a difference in text colour e.g., formatting for links on a page includes
presenting them both in a different colour than the other text on the page underlining them to make
the links identiﬁable even without colour vision.
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 1.4.1
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually and by using the Accessibility extension to
browser/accessibility plug-in/web accessibility tool/assistive technology to check the conformity
of this checkpoint.

5. Guidelines
Statement: If any audio on a Web page plays automatically for 
more than 3 seconds, either a mechanism is available to pause or 
stop the audio, or a mechanism is available to control audio volume 
independently from the overall system volume level.
Beneﬁts: The ability for individuals who use screen reading software to turn off background sound
provides numerous beneﬁts. It ensures that the screen reader's speech output can be heard clearly
without interference from other audio, which is especially important for those who are hard of
hearing or have hearing impairments. Additionally, it beneﬁts individuals who struggle to focus on
visual content when audio is playing. This simple feature allows for a more accessible and inclusive
experience for all users.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Ensure that the sound that plays automatically when a page load stops within 3
seconds or provide a control at the beginning of the page to turn the sound off
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 1.4.2
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually to check the conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: The visual presentation of text and images of text has a 
contrast ratio of at least 4.5:1, except for the following:
(a) Large Text: (18 pt. or 14 pt. bold) Large-scale text and images of large-scale text have a
contrast ratio of at least 3:1;
(b) Incidental: Text or images of text that are part of an inactive user interface component,
that are pure decoration, that are not visible to anyone, or that are part of a picture that
contains signiﬁcant other visual content, have no contrast requirement; and
(c) Logotypes: Text that is part of a logo or brand name has no contrast requirement.
Beneﬁts: The contrast ratios are that they improve the readability and accessibility of text for a
wider range of users, including those with visual impairments or colour deﬁciencies. By providing a
minimum luminance contrast ratio between text and its background, text is more visible and legible,
which can improve user experience and overall inclusivity.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Developers must Ensure that a contrast ratio of at least 4.5:1 exists between text
(and images of text) and background behind the text. It must be checked by the use of contrast

5. Guidelines
checking tools. Alternatively, they can provide a control with a sufﬁcient contrast ratio that allows
users to switch to a presentation that uses sufﬁcient contrast
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 1.4.3
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it to see whether ‘high contrast mode’ is available and by
using the accessibility extension to browser/accessibility plug-in/web accessibility tool to check
the conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: Except for captions and images of text, text can be
resized without assistive technology up to 200 percent 
without loss of content or functionality.
Beneﬁts: It helps people with mild visual disabilities by allowing them to scale visually rendered text
and text-based controls on a web page, without requiring the use of assistive technology. It ensures
that the author creates web content that does not prevent user agents from scaling content
effectively. By supporting text scaling, people with low vision can increase the size of text to a
readable level, improving their ability to access and read web content.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Developer must create Web content that does not prevent the user agent (e.g.,
browser) from scaling the content effectively. Ensuring that text containers resize when the text
resizes and using measurements that are relative to other measurements in the content.
Alternatively, developers may provide controls on the Web page that allow users to incrementally
change the size of all text on the page up to 200 percent.
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 1.4.4
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually and by using the Accessibility extension to
browser/accessibility plug-in/web accessibility tool to check the conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: If the technologies being used can achieve the 
visual presentation, text is used to convey information 
rather than images of text except for the following:
(a) Customizable: The image of text can be visually customised to the user's requirements;
(b) Essential: A particular presentation of text is essential to the information being
(c) Use of images for representing text should be limited.

5. Guidelines
Beneﬁt: Though images add life to a website, they also increase downloading time. Images should
only be used when it adds value to the content. Images should not be used to present text as those
using text-only browsers shall not be able to access the information thus rendering the website
inaccessible to many. Therefore, text must be used to convey information rather than images of text
except for the cases given above. The use of text, rather than images of text, should be considered
for page headings and website navigation items.
Government organisation action: Perform OCR on a scanned PDF document to capture actual text
Developer action: CSS properties like font-family, text-align, font-size etc. can be used to style text
and avoid the need for text in images.
Reference: WCAG 2 1 - 1.4.5
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually to check the conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: Content can be presented without loss of information 
or functionality and without requiring scrolling in two 
dimensions for:
(a) Vertical scrolling content at a width equivalent to 320 CSS pixels;
(b) Horizontal scrolling content at a height equivalent to 256 CSS pixels; and
(c) Except for parts of the content which require a two-dimensional layout for usage or
Beneﬁts: Beneﬁts especially to those with small screens such as mobile devices or limited screen
resolutions. It ensures that content is presented in a way that is easily accessible without the need
for excessive scrolling or complex navigation.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Use responsive web design approach by using CSS media queries, grid or ﬂexbox
to present content without introducing a horizontal scroll bar at a width equivalent to 320 CSS
pixels, or a vertical scroll bar at a height equivalent to 256 CSS pixels for text intended to scroll
Reference: WCAG 2.1-1.4.10
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it
manually and by using the web accessibility
tool to check the conformity of this

5. Guidelines
Statement: The visual presentation of the following has a 
contrast ratio of at least 3:1 against adjacent colour(s):
(a) User Interface Components: Visual information required to identify user interface
components and states, except for inactive components or where the appearance of the
component is determined by the user agent and not modiﬁed by the author;
(b) Graphical Objects: Parts of graphics required to understand the content, except when a
particular presentation of graphics is essential to the information being conveyed.
Beneﬁts: This beneﬁts people with low vision or other visual impairments who may have difﬁculty
perceiving low contrast controls and graphics and helps them better understand the content or
functionality of the webpage without the need for contrast-enhancing assistive technology.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Providing a control with a sufﬁcient contrast ratio that allows users to switch to
a presentation that uses sufﬁcient contrast
Reference: WCAG 2.1- 1.4.11
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually and by using the accessibility extension to
browser/accessibility plug-in/web accessibility tool to check the conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: In content implemented using markup languages that 
support the following text style properties, no loss of content or 
functionality occurs by setting all of the following and by 
changing no other style property:
(a) Line height (line spacing) to at least 1.5 times the font size;
(b) Spacing following paragraphs to at least 2 times the font size;
(c) Letter spacing (tracking) to at least 0.12 times the font size;
(d) Word spacing to at least 0.16 times the font size; and
(e) Exception: Human languages and scripts that do not make use of one or more of these
text style properties in written text can conform using only the properties that exist for that
combination of language and script.

5. Guidelines
Beneﬁts: People with visual and cognitive disabilities can adjust text spacing to improve their
reading experience without losing any content or functionality. By setting a minimum baseline for
text styling adaptability, users can increase the spacing between lines, words, letters and
paragraphs to effectively read text and other style preferences can be set. This can beneﬁt people
with low vision, dyslexia and cognitive disabilities who may require increased space between text to
read or discern sections and call out boxes. Overall, this aims to improve accessibility and usability
for a wider range of users.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Ensure that content has the ability to be set to the above metrics without loss
of content or functionality in case the user prefers to override the spacing provided by the
developer
Reference: WCAG 2.1- 1.4.12
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually and by using the accessibility extension to
browser/accessibility plug-in/web accessibility tool/assistive technology to check the conformity
of this checkpoint.
Statement: Where receiving and then removing pointer hover or 
keyboard focus triggers additional content to become 
visible and then hidden, the following are true:
(a) Dismissible: A mechanism is available to dismiss the additional content without moving
pointer hover or keyboard focus unless the additional content communicates an input error
or does not obscure or replace other content;
(b) Hover-able: If pointer hover can trigger the additional content, then the pointer can be
moved over the additional content without the additional content disappearing; and
(c) Persistent: The additional content remains visible until the hover or focus trigger is
removed, the user dismisses it, or its information is no longer valid.
Beneﬁts: This beneﬁts users with low vision, cognitive disabilities, low pointer accuracy and those
who use magniﬁcation or larger mouse cursors by providing a way to view content without reducing
their desired magniﬁcation or increasing the risk of triggering additional content accidentally.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Ensure that content has the ability to be set to the above metrics without loss
of content or functionality in case the user prefers to override the spacing provided by the
developer

5. Guidelines
Reference: WCAG 2.1-1.4.13
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually and by using the accessibility extension to
browser/accessibility plug-in/web accessibility tool/assistive technology to check the conformity
of this checkpoint.
Statement: All functionality of the content is operable through a 
keyboard interface without requiring speciﬁc timings for
individual keystrokes, except where the underlying function 
requires input that depends on the path of the user's 
movement and not just the endpoints.
Beneﬁts: By ensuring that content is operable through a keyboard or keyboard interface, this
Success Criterion beneﬁts people who are blind, people with low vision and individuals with hand
tremors or other conditions that make using a mouse difﬁcult. It also enables the use of operating
system keyboard accessibility features, such as modiﬁer key locking, which can further improve the
accessibility of the content.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Developers must Identify all functionality on the content and check that all
functionalities can be accessed using only the keyboard or keyboard interface. It is important to
consider functions performed using both the mouse and the keyboard together. Examples of
functionality include the use of physical controls such as links, menus, buttons, checkboxes, radio
buttons and form ﬁelds as well as the use of features like drag and drop, selecting text, resizing
regions or bringing up context menus. This does not necessarily mean that each of the individual
controls can be used from the keyboard as long as there are multiple methods to perform the same
function available on the page. Developers must consider how users will discover any keyboard
equivalents which are available in such a case.
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 2.1.1
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually to
check the conformity of this checkpoint.

5. Guidelines
Statement: If keyboard focus can be moved to a component of the 
page using a keyboard interface, then focus can be moved away 
from that component using only a keyboard interface and, if it 
requires more than unmodiﬁed arrow or tab keys or other standard 
exit methods, the user is advised of the method for 
moving focus away.
Beneﬁts: Whenever a web page is rendered using plug-ins or embedded applications, it is possible
that functionality of the Web page restricts the keyboard focus to a subsection of the content,
unless the user knows how to leave that state and “un-trap” the focus. This situation may affect
navigation for people who rely on a keyboard or keyboard interface to use the Web, including
visually challenged and people with physical disabilities.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Developers must ensure that if focus can be moved to a component of the page
using a keyboard interface, then focus can be moved away from that component using only a
keyboard interface and, if it is not possible the user is advised of the method for moving focus away
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 2.1.2
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually and by using assistive technology to check the
conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: If a keyboard shortcut is implemented in content using 
only letter (including upper- and lower-case letters), punctuation, 
number, or symbol characters, then at least one of the 
following is true:
(a) Turn off: A mechanism is available to turn the shortcut off;
(b) Remap: A mechanism is available to remap the shortcut to include one or more
non-printable keyboard keys (e.g., Ctrl, Alt); and
(c) Active only on focus: The keyboard shortcut for a user interface component is only
active when that component has focus.

5. Guidelines
Beneﬁts: Beneﬁts speech users who can avoid ﬁring batches of single-key shortcuts at once and
make full use of programs that offer single-key shortcuts to keyboard users. It also beneﬁts
keyboard-only users who have dexterity challenges an d may accidentally hit keys, as they can turn
off or modify problematic single character shortcuts.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: In case a developer has provided shortcuts in their applications to allow for
faster user interaction which involve only character keys (letters, numbers, punctuation or symbol
characters) without modiﬁers provision must be given to allow users to turn off or reconﬁgure
shortcuts that are made up of only character keys. If the keyboard shortcut is only active when a
particular user interface component has focus, then override mechanism is not required.
Reference: WCAG 2.1 – 2.1.4
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually to check the conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: For each time limit that is set by the content, 
at least one of the following is true:
(a) Turn off: The user is allowed to turn off the time limit before encountering it; or
(b) Adjust: The user is allowed to adjust the time limit before encountering it over a wide
range that is at least ten times the length of the default setting; or
(c) Extend: The user is warned before time expires and given at least 20 seconds to
extend the time limit with a simple action (for example, "press the spacebar") and the
user is allowed to extend the time limit at least ten times; or
(d) Real-time Exception: The time limit is a required part of a real-time event (for
example, an auction) and no alternative to the time limit is possible; or
(e) Essential Exception: The time limit is essential and extending it would invalidate the
activity; or
(f) 20 Hour Exception: The time limit is longer than 20 hours.
Beneﬁts: In situations where web functions are time-dependent, (for example, ﬁlling out an online
form) it will be difﬁcult for people with disabilities such as blindness, low vision, dexterity
impairments and cognitive limitations to perform the required functions before a time limit occurs.
This may render the service inaccessible to them. For individuals who are deaf and communicate in
sign language, having control over time limits is important when using a sign-language interpreter.
Providing additional time to pause content can be helpful for those with reading and cognitive
disabilities to better comprehend information.

5. Guidelines
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Developers must ensure that people with disabilities such as blindness, low
vision, dexterity impairments and cognitive limitations are given adequate time to perform the
functions that are time dependent whenever possible. The user must be allowed to turn off the time
limit, adjust the default setting before encountering it or is warned before time expires and given
the option to extend the time limit with a simple action (for example, “press the spacebar”).
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 2.2.1
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually to check the conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: For moving, blinking, scrolling, or auto-updating 
information, all of the following are true:
(a) Moving, blinking, scrolling: For any moving, blinking or scrolling information that (1)
starts automatically, (2) lasts more than ﬁve seconds and (3) is presented in parallel with
other content, there is a mechanism for the user to pause, stop, or hide it unless the
movement, blinking, or scrolling is part of an activity where it is essential; and
(b) Auto-updating: For any auto-updating information that (1) starts automatically and
(2) is presented in parallel with other content, there is a mechanism for the user to pause,
stop, or hide it or to control the frequency of the update unless the auto-updating is part
of an activity where it is essential.
Beneﬁts: Avoiding content that ﬂashes can prevent triggering seizures in people with
photosensitive epilepsy.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Allow the content to be paused and restarted from where it was paused or Use
script to scroll content and provide a mechanism to pauseit or Create content that blinks for less
than 5 seconds
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 2.2.2
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually to
check the conformity of this checkpoint.

5. Guidelines
Statement: Web pages do not contain anything that ﬂashes 
more than three times in any one second period, or the ﬂash 
is below the general ﬂash and red ﬂash thresholds.
Beneﬁts: Certain special effects such as blinking, or ﬂashing have been reported to cause epileptic
seizures. It is also seen that people are more sensitive to red ﬂashing than other colours. Web pages
must not contain anything that ﬂashes more than three times in any one second period. It must also
be checked that the Light/Dark status at the end of the 1- second period is the same as at the start
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Ensure that no component of the content ﬂashes more than three times in any
1-second period or keep the ﬂashing area small enough reference
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 2.3.1
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually and by using web accessibility tool to check the
conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: A mechanism is available to bypass blocks of content 
that are repeated on multiple Web pages.
Beneﬁts: Web pages and applications often have content that is repeated on other pages or
screens (for example navigation links, heading graphics, banner frames etc). A sighted user can
ignore the repeated material by focusing on the main content area, but it is not possible for a person
using a screen reader as the content is read sequentially.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Developers must provide a mechanism to bypass blocks of content that are
repeated on multiple Web pages. This may be done by:
(a) providing a link at the top of each page that goes directly to the main content area.
(b) providing a link at the beginning of the content block to go to the end of the block
(c) providing links at the top of each page that go to each area of content.
(d) Controls and programmatic focus can also be used to bypass blocks of content.
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 2.4.1
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually to check the conformity of this checkpoint.

5. Guidelines
Statement: Web pages/app screens have titles that 
describe topic or purpose.
Beneﬁt: This facilitates an easy and unambiguous identiﬁcation of the webpage & also helps in a
more relevant and visible presence in the search engine results. Further, it is important since the
screen readers used by the visually impaired users ﬁrst read the title of the page and in case the
title is not explanatory enough, it may confuse or mislead them.
Government organisation action: The government organisation must ensure that title is complete
with the topic of the page. For the top-level page i.e., homepage/homescreen the name of the
country must be included, for instance, instead of the title being just Ministry of Health and Family
Welfare, it should state, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Government of India. Alternatively, in
case of a State ‘Department of Health, Government of Karnataka, India’ Government Department, it
should state ‘Department of Health, Government of Karnataka, India’.
Developer action: there are scenarios when the Web page has a title, but the title does not identify
the contents or purpose of the Web page. This may be caused because—
(a) Authoring tool default page titles, such as: "Enter the title of the HTML document here," "Untitled
document" or "No title";
(b) Empty text in title;
(c) Filler or placeholder text; and
(d) A website generated using templates includes the same title for each page.
The developer should ensure that the above does not affect the page title.
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 2.4.2
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually to check the conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: If a Web page can be navigated sequentially and 
the navigation sequences affect meaning or operation, focusable 
components receive focus in an order that preserves meaning 
and operability.
Beneﬁts: When users navigate sequentially through content, they should encounter information in
an order that is consistent with the meaning of the content and can be operated from the keyboard.
Hence if a Web page can be navigated sequentially and the navigation sequences affect meaning
or operation, focusable components must receive focus in an order that preserves meaning and

5. Guidelines
Government organisation action: Ensure correct reading order in PDF documents by structuring
the document correctly in the authoring tool used to create the document before conversion to
tagged PDF. Pages with complex layouts with graphics, tables, footnotes, sidebars, form ﬁelds and
other elements may not convert to tagged PDF in the correct reading order. These inconsistencies
must then be corrected with repair tools such as Acrobat.
Developer action: Ensure that interactive elements on a webpage receive focus in an order that
follows sequences and relationships in the content. When designing the content, the interactive
elements such as links and form controls must be placed in the content so that the default tab
order follows the sequences and relationships in the content. Correct tab and reading order must
also be ensured in PDF documents by using a tool for authoring PDF.
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 2.4.3
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually and by using the assistive technology to check
the conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: The purpose of each link can be determined from the 
link text alone or from the link text together with its 
programmatically determined link context, except where the 
of the link would be ambiguous to users in general.
Beneﬁt: This helps users understand the purpose of each link so they can decide whether they
want to follow the link. Assistive technology has the ability to provide users with a list of links that
are on the Web page. Link text that is as meaningful as possible will aid users who want to choose
from this list of links. Meaningful link text also helps those who wish to tab from link to link.
Meaningful links help users choose which links to follow without requiring complicated strategies to
understand the page.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Developer must ensure that the text of, or associated with, the link describes the
purpose of the link. In cases where the link takes one to a document or a web application, the name
of the document or web application would be sufﬁcient to describe the purpose of the link however
it is not mandatory to use the name of the document or web application; other things may also
describe the purpose of the link.
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 2.4.4
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually to check the conformity of this checkpoint.

5. Guidelines
Statement: More than one way is available to locate a web page 
within a set of web pages except where the web page is the 
result of, or a step in, a process.
Beneﬁts: Providing multiple navigation options can help people ﬁnd information faster, particularly
those with visual or cognitive impairments. For instance, a person with a visual impairment may
prefer using a search feature instead of scrolling through a large navigation bar with a screen reader.
Similarly, a person with cognitive limitations may ﬁnd a site map or table of contents more useful
than a hierarchical navigation scheme.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Developers must include either a “Search” box or a link to a “Search” page from
every page of the website. The search box or link must be titled “Search”, as it is a standard term
understood by web surfers worldwide. As per internationally accepted Usability principles, search
boxes are most effective when placed in the same position on all pages (usually within the upper
third part of the webpage). Additionally, a sitemap or a link to all the pages of the website from the
homepage/homescreen or a table of contents must be provided
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 2.4.5
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually to check the conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: Headings and labels describe topic or purpose.
Beneﬁt: It is imperative that the information and services on the website/app are well organised and
categorised into relevant modules/sections and sub-sections so that any information can be
located conveniently and is not buried deep inside Webpages. These sections or categories may be
identiﬁed with headings or labels. Headings and Labels wherever used must correctly describe the
topic or purpose of content.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Developers must specify headings using HTML heading tags (H1 to H6) with
proper hierarchy. When headings are clear and descriptive, users can ﬁnd the information they seek
more easily and they can understand the relationships between different parts of the content more
easily. Developers must also provide descriptive labels to help users identify speciﬁc components
within the content. Labels and headings do not need to be lengthy. A single word may sufﬁce if it
provides an appropriate cue to ﬁnding and navigating content.
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 2.4.6
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually to check the conformity of this checkpoint.

5. Guidelines
Statement: Any keyboard operable user interface has a mode of 
operation where the keyboard focus indicator is visible.
Beneﬁt: This helps the user know which element among the multiple elements present in the page
has focus. For e.g., in case of a button a visual change in the button (e.g., colour, size) can indicate
that the focus is on the button.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: When standard controls are used the users are informed of the focus location
in a standard, predictable way. Visual appearance may also be enhanced via style sheets to
provide visual feedback when an interactive element has focus or when a user hovers over it using
a pointing device.
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 2.4.7
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually to check the conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: All functionality that uses multipoint or path-based 
gestures for operation can be operated with a single pointer 
without a path-based gesture, unless a multipoint or 
path-based gesture is essential.
Beneﬁt: This is particularly beneﬁcial for those with cognitive or learning disabilities who may not
understand custom gesture interactions. The beneﬁts of providing alternative means for operating
touchscreen or mouse-based content, particularly for users who may have physical, cognitive, or
learning disabilities that these users can still effectively interact with the content. This can help to
ensure that digital experiences are more inclusive
and accessible for all users.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Developer must provide
controls to achieve the same result as path based
or multipoint gestures
Reference: WCAG 2.1-2.5.1
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually
to check the conformity of this checkpoint.

5. Guidelines
Statement: For functionality that can be operated using a 
single pointer, at least one of the following is true:
(a) No Down-Event: The down-event of the pointer is not used to execute any part of the
(b) Abort or Undo: Completion of the function is on the up-event and a mechanism is available
to abort the function before completion or to undo the function after completion;
(c) Up Reversal: The up-event reverses any outcome of the preceding down-event;
(d) Essential: Completing the function on the down-event is essential.
Beneﬁts: This will help users to prevent accidental or erroneous pointer input by allowing them to
cancel pointer operations. The preferred method for cancellation is the up-event, which occurs
when a touchscreen or mouse pointer is released. This will beneﬁt all users by reducing the chance
of accidental activation and ensuring a means of undoing or aborting an action is available.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Incorporate pointer cancellation by making activation occur on the up-event.
This can be done by using the default behaviour of controls and not override that behaviour with an
explicit down-event trigger. The up-event is the default behaviour for almost all controls and any
programming or markup language. Also, for drag and drop events it must be ensured that users who
use a path-based drag-and-drop action to move an item from the initial location to a drop target
can abort the action after picking up the target. This can be done either by releasing the item
outside a drop area, or by moving the item back to its original position in a separate action that
undoes the ﬁrst action e.g., a website shows a ﬁle directory. Files can be picked up and moved over
a trash can icon. When the picked-up ﬁle is released outside this target, it reverts to the old
Reference: WCAG 2.1- 2.5.2
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test the
website manually to check the conformity of
this checkpoint.
JAVASCRIPT

5. Guidelines
Statement: For user interface components with labels that include 
text or images of text, the name contains the text that is 
presented visually.
Beneﬁts: This will allow users with disabilities to interact with the components using speech
recognition or text-to-speech technologies more easily and with greater predictability. It is
important to determine which text on the screen should be considered a label for any given control
and to bias towards treating only the adjacent text as a label. The beneﬁts of implementing this
Success Criterion include more efﬁcient navigation for speech-input users and a better experience
for text-to-speech users.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Ensure that the words and characters in the visible label of a control match or
are contained within the programmatic name, also known as the Accessible Name.
Reference: WCAG 2.1- 2.5.3
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually to check the conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: Functionality that can be operated by device motion or 
user motion can also be operated by user interface components 
and responding to the motion can be disabled to prevent 
accidental actuation, except when:
(a) Supported Interface: The motion is used to operate functionality through an accessibility
supported interface;
(b) Essential: The motion is essential for the
function and doing so would invalidate the activity;
(c) Functionality that can be operated by device
motion or user motion must also be operable by
user interface components and responding to
the motion can be disabled to prevent accidental a
ctuation, except when:
(i) Supported Interface: The motion is used to
operate functionality through an accessibility
supported interface;
(ii) Essential: The motion is essential for the function
and doing so would invalidate the activity.

5. Guidelines
Beneﬁts: This will help users with disabilities who may not be able to use device sensors or perform
certain movements, as well as users who are unable to move their devices. By providing alternative
methods of operating all functionality, this success criterion ensures that everyone can access and
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: In Devices that have sensors that can act as inputs, (such as accelerometer and
gyroscope sensors on a phone or tablet device) and allow the user to control something by simply
changing the orientation or moving the device in particular ways the functionality offered through
motion must also be available by another mechanism. The user must also have the ability to turn off
motion actuation to prevent accidental triggering of functions due to tremors or other motor
Reference: WCAG 2.1- 2.5.4
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually to check the conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: The default human language of each Web page can be 
programmatically determined.
Beneﬁts: This ensures that users with disabilities, who rely on assistive technologies to access the
content, can understand it better. It beneﬁts people who have difﬁculty reading written material or
recognizing characters and alphabets, those with certain cognitive or learning disabilities who use
text-to-speech software and those who rely on captions for synchronised media.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Default language of the page
must be indicated programmatically by the use
of the lang attribute. In PDF document default
language can be set using the Lang entry in the
document catalogue. Specifying the default language
in the HTTP header in relevant situations can be
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 3.1.1
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it
manually to check the conformity of this checkpoint.

5. Guidelines
Statement: The human language of each passage or phrase in the 
content can be programmatically determined except for proper 
names, technical terms, words of indeterminate language and 
words or phrases that have become part of the vernacular 
of the immediately surrounding text.
Beneﬁts: This will help people who have difﬁculty reading, recognizing characters and alphabets,
decoding words and understanding phrases, as well as people with certain cognitive, language and
learning disabilities who use text-to-speech software.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: If there are any changes in the default language of the document, either in the
document’s text or any text equivalents (e.g., captions), they also be clearly identiﬁed using the lang
attribute. The language for a passage or phrase can be speciﬁed with the Lang entry in PDF
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 3.1.2
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually and by using the Accessibility extension to
browser/ Accessibility plug-in/Web Accessibility tool/ Assistive Technology to check the
conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: When any user interface component receives focus, 
it does not initiate a change of context.
Beneﬁts: This aims to prevent unexpected context changes that can be especially problematic for
people with visual disabilities, cognitive limitations and motor impairments. By ensuring that focus
changes are predictable and consistent, this improves the usability and accessibility of web
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Ensure that all changes of context are triggered only by a speciﬁc action on the
part of the user. Further, that action is the one that usually causes changes in context, such as
clicking on a link or pressing a submit button. Actions that simply move the focus to an element
must not cause a change of context.
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 3.2.1
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually to check the conformity of this checkpoint.

5. Guidelines
Statement: Changing the setting of any user interface component 
does not automatically cause a change of context unless the user 
has been advised of the behaviour before using 
the component.
Beneﬁts: It helps users with visual and cognitive disabilities by providing additional cues to detect
changes of context, reducing the chances of disorientation and enhancing their ability to use the
content. Users who are unable to detect changes of context are less likely to become disoriented
while navigating a site, making the content more accessible to a wider range of users.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Provide a submit button to initiate a change of context or if change in context
occurs provide information to users about what will happen when a change to a form control results
in a change of context
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 3.2.2
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually to check the conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: Navigational mechanisms that are repeated on multiple 
Web pages within a set of Web pages occur in the same relative 
order each time they are repeated, unless a change is 
initiated by the user.
Beneﬁts: This is particularly helpful for individuals with low vision who use screen magniﬁcation or
visual cues to navigate the website. Ensuring that repeated components occur in the same order on
each page of a website helps users with cognitive limitations, intellectual disabilities and those who
are blind to become comfortable with the website's structure and easily ﬁnd what they are looking
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Ensure presenting components that are repeated in web pages in the same
relative order each time they appear. Other components can be inserted between them, but their
relative order is not changed. Similarly in navigational components links or programmatic references
must be presented inside a navigational component in the same relative order each time the
navigational component is repeated. Other links can be removed or inserted between the existing
ones, for example to allow navigation inside a subsection of a set of Web pages, but the relative
order is not changed.
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 3.2.3
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually to check the conformity of this checkpoint.

5. Guidelines
Statement: Components that have the same functionality within a 
set of Web pages are identiﬁed consistently.
Beneﬁts: This will help people who use screen readers to navigate and operate a website more
easily, as they rely on their familiarity with functions that may appear on different pages. It also
beneﬁts people with cognitive limitations and those who have difﬁculty reading or detecting text
alternatives. Consistent labelling and text alternatives enable people to ﬁnd desired functions on
other pages if they are present, interact with non-text content in a consistent way and have a more
predictable and consistent experience while navigating a website.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Apply consistent labels on user interface components (i.e., elements, links,
JavaScript objects, etc.) that have the same function e.g., A Web page has a form ﬁeld at the top of
the page labelled "Search". On the bottom of the page is another form ﬁeld which provides the same
function. It is also labelled "Search."
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 3.2.4
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually to check the conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: If an input error is automatically detected, the item that 
is in error is identiﬁed and the error is described to the 
user in text.
Beneﬁts: This helps users, including those who are blind or
have cognitive or learning disabilities, to understand that
an error has occurred and how to correct it. By providing
text-based error messages, users who cannot perceive
visual cues, such as colour or icons, are also able to
understand the error message. This improves the
accessibility of web forms and makes them more
usable for a wider range of users.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Error must be identiﬁed to the user in
text. It is perfectly acceptable to indicate the error in
other ways such as image, colour etc, in addition to the
text description.
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 3.3.1
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually to
check the conformity of this checkpoint.

5. Guidelines
Statement: Labels or instructions are provided when content 
requires user input.
Beneﬁts: This beneﬁts user, especially those with disabilities, by providing clear and unambiguous
instructions that help them enter information correctly and avoid incomplete or incorrect form
submissions. The goal is to provide enough information for users to accomplish tasks without undue
confusion or navigation, without cluttering the page with unnecessary information.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Developers must present instructions or labels that identify the controls in a
form so that users know what input data is expected. In the case of radio buttons, checkboxes,
combo boxes, or similar controls that provide users with options, each option must have an
appropriate label. Instructions or labels may also specify data formats for data entry ﬁelds,
especially if they are out of the customary formats or if there are speciﬁc rules for correct input.
Developers may also make such instructions available to users only when the individual control has
focus, especially when instructions are long and verbose.
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 3.3.2
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually and by using the Accessibility extension to
browser/ Accessibility plug-in/Web Accessibility tool to check the conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: If an input error is automatically detected and 
suggestions for correction are known, then the suggestions are 
provided to the user, unless it would jeopardise the 
security or purpose of the content.
Beneﬁts: This will help users with disabilities to understand how to correct errors and ﬁll in forms
successfully. Providing information about how to correct input errors can beneﬁt users with learning
disabilities, visual impairments and motion impairments by making it easier for them to understand
the nature of the error and how to correct it and reducing the number of times they need to change
an input value. This improves the overall accessibility and usability of it or application for a wider
range of users.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Provide text descriptions to identify required ﬁelds that were not completed
while submitting a form or provide the correct format if the values entered in a ﬁeld have an
incorrect format.
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 3.3.3
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually to check the conformity of this checkpoint.

5. Guidelines
Statement: For webpages that cause legal commitments or 
ﬁnancial transactions for the user to occur, that modify or delete 
user-controllable data in data storage systems, or that submit user 
test responses, at least one of the following is true:
(a) Submissions are reversible;
(b) Data entered by the user is checked for input errors and the user is provided with an
opportunity to correct them; and
(c) A mechanism is available for reviewing, conﬁrming, and correcting information before
ﬁnalising the submission.
Beneﬁts: This beneﬁts users with disabilities who may be more likely to make mistakes due to
reading or motor impairments and helps prevent costly errors that could result in ﬁnancial loss or
data loss. By providing safeguards to avoid serious consequences, this success criterion improves
the accessibility and usability of it or application for all users, not just those with disabilities.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Provide safeguards as above to avoid serious consequences resulting from
mistakes helps users with all disabilities who may be more likely to make mistakes.
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 3.3.4
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually to check the conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: In content implemented using markup languages, 
elements have complete start and end tags, elements are nested 
according to their speciﬁcations, elements do not contain 
duplicate attributes and any IDs are unique, except where 
the speciﬁcations allow these features.
Beneﬁts: This will help prevent different user agents from rendering the content differently or being
unable to parse it, which can lead to accessibility issues for users with disabilities. By requiring that
web content be correctly structured, with complete start and end tags and proper nesting, this
helps ensure that assistive technologies can parse the content accurately and without crashing,
which improves the accessibility and usability of the website or application for all users.
Government organisation action: None.

5. Guidelines
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Developers must validate the markup to ensure that it is as per the standards
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 4.1.1
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually and by using the Accessibility extension to
browser/ Accessibility plug-in/Web Accessibility tool to check the conformity of this checkpoint.
Statement: For all user interface components (including but not 
limited to form elements, links and components generated by 
scripts), the name and role can be programmatically determined; 
states, properties and values that can be set by the user can be 
programmatically set; and notiﬁcation of changes to these 
items is available to user agents, including assistive
technologies.
Beneﬁts: This ensures that user interface controls in web content can be accurately interpreted
and controlled by assistive technologies. By providing role, state and value information for all user
interface components, people with disabilities who use assistive technology such as screen
readers or speech recognition software can more easily access and navigate web content. This can
improve their overall user experience and help them more fully participate in online activities.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: Developers who develop or script their own user interface components must
provide role, state and value information on all such
components
Reference: WCAG 2.1 - 4.1.2
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it
manually and by using the Accessibility
extension to browser/ Accessibility
plug-in/Web Accessibility tool/ Assistive
Technology to check the conformity of this

5. Guidelines
Statement: In content implemented using markup languages, 
status messages can be programmatically determined through 
role or properties such that they can be presented to the user by 
assistive technologies without receiving focus.
Beneﬁts: It beneﬁts blind and low vision users of assistive technologies by enabling compatibility
with screen readers and may also beneﬁt users with cognitive disabilities. Properly assigning roles
or properties to status messages allows for possible future uses and personalization
opportunities, while also providing additional information to users without affecting their current
point of regard. Additionally, assistive technologies may choose to delay, suppress, or transform
such messages based on the user's preferences.
Government organisation action: None.
Developer action: The status message provides information to the user on the success or results
of an action, on the waiting state of an application, on the progress of a process, or on the
existence of errors; the message is not delivered via a change in context.
Reference: WCAG 2.1– 4.1.3
Evaluator action: The evaluator will test it manually and by using the Accessibility extension to
browser/ Accessibility plug-in/Web Accessibility tool/ Assistive Technology to check the
conformity of this checkpoint.

Cybersecurity
5.3
Protecting web resources from unauthorised use, access, 
changes, destruction, or disruption is generally termed as 
“Website Security” or “Secured Website”.
Sometimes 
web 
resources 
become 
unavailable 
due 
to 
denial-of-service attacks or display modiﬁed information on the 
webpages. Millions of passwords, email addresses and credit card 
details have been leaked into the public domain exposing web users 
to both personal embarrassment and ﬁnancial risks. The purpose of 
Website Security is to prevent such risks.
Website Security requires vigilance in all aspects starting from 
design, coding and implementation to testing and deployment. 
Organisations should implement appropriate security majors, 
defences and countermeasures to protect web resources against 
malfunctioning, phishing, cyber-crimes or cyberattacks to avoid
5. Guidelines

5. Guidelines
data loss of the organisations or users.
The government organisation will ensure and monitor that the host 
service provider and the developer adhere to the industry best 
security practices and guidelines such as ISO 27001, OWASP ASVS, 
OWASP Top 10 vulnerabilities and CIS benchmarks as per the 
prevailing security policy. Following guidelines are to secure web 
resources & associated infrastructure:
Statement: Website, web application, web portal or mobile app 
have been Security Audited and an Audit Clearance certiﬁcate has 
been issued by NIC/ STQC/ STQC empanelled laboratory/CERT
-In empanelled laboratory before hosting in production
environment.
Beneﬁts: The goal of securing a website, web application, web portal or mobile app is to maintain
the conﬁdentiality, integrity and availability of information and services. This goal is accomplished
through the implementation of best security practices in design, development and deployment.
Attacks could cause both personal embarrassment and ﬁnancial risks.
Government organisation action: It should be ensured that the website, web application, web
portal or mobile app don’t have any security risks as identiﬁed by the latest OWASP Top 10
vulnerability list. The design and development agency or the developers should follow industry
best practices such as OWASP ASVS and OWASP MAVS.
Developer action: Securing critical web resources is more important than ever as the focus of
attackers has steadily moved towards the application layer and they are exploiting the weaknesses
in the code.
A. Securing Code
(a)
Ensure that all websites, web applications, web portals or mobile apps and their respective
CMS, 3rd party plugins, codes, etc. are updated to the latest vers ions.
Note: Every day, there are countless websites/apps compromised due to outdated software.
Potential hackers and bots are scanning websites/apps to attack. Updates are vital to the
health and security of the website/app. If the website’s software or applications are not
up-to-date, the website/app is not secure. Take all software and plugin update requests
seriously. Updates often contain security enhancements and vulnerability repairs. Check the

5. Guidelines
website/app for updates or add an update notiﬁcation plugin. Some platforms allow
automatic updates, which is another option to ensure website/app security. Longer the wait
to update, lesser the secure. Keeping the website/app up-to-date and its components
should be on top priority.
(b)
All passwords, connection strings, tokens, keys, etc. should be encrypted with salted hash.
There should not be any plain passwords stored in conﬁg ﬁles or source code or in a database.
(c)
All exceptions should be handled appropriately. Custom error pages should be displayed for
any errors/exceptions. At no point of time, a portion of source code should be displayed on the
page in case of an error or exception.
(d)
HTTP Response Headers should be obscured.
(e)
Cookies should be secure and HTTP only.
(f)
Conﬁgure captcha for login pages.
(g)
Directory traversal should be disabled. In case of any speciﬁc attempt by a user to access a
portion of the code by typing the URL path (ex: www.xxx.gov.in/js/custom.js) then the same should
be redirected to a custom error page.
(h)
All default user names and IIS/Apache pages (like admin, default.aspx, index.aspx, etc.) should
be renamed. The access URL for the admin panel/CMS, should also be renamed.
(i)
The Web Server processes should not be running under Administrator or Root user Account. A
dedicated User account with limited privileges should be used for the Web Server Processes.
Note: Not every webmaster knows which web server they use. Use a website scanner like Site Check
to check the website for known malware, viruses, blacklisting status, website errors and more. The
more one knows about the current state of website security, it’s better as it gives time to ﬁx the
issues before any harm comes to it.
(j)
If the web or mobile app is integrated with any 3rd party Applications or using any APIs for
external communication, then ensure that all such communications are done through encrypted
(k)
Enforce strong password management policy, secure password recovery mechanisms and
multi-factor authentication (MFA) for user login to website, web application or web portal
(l)
Implement role-based access control and minimal privilege policy for users as per need from
the system.
(m)
Establish the secure coding practices document based on leading practices such as OWASP
for code development. Below is an indicative checklist that can be considered for secure code
(i)
Input Validation
(ii)
Authentication & Password Management
(iii)
Session Management

5. Guidelines
(iv)
Access Control
(v)
Cryptographic Practices
(vi)
Error Handling & Logging
(vii)
Data Protection
(viii)
Communication Security
(ix)
System Conﬁguration
(x)
Database Security
(xi)
File Management
(xii)
Memory Management
(n)
Implement logging functionality and periodically auditing the web logs for suspicious activity.
(o)
Conﬁgure website, web application or web portal caching to optimize resource availability.
(p)
Sanitise user input at both the client end and the server end with both syntactical as well as
a semantic approach.
(q)
The technology to be implemented should be chosen after careful consideration. Various
client-side Active Content Technologies are available e.g., Java scripts etc. Each has its own
strengths and weaknesses along with an associated risk.
(r)
Disable the root user access to run the code on Linux/Unix hosts.
(s)
Use explicit path names when invoking external programs and not rely on the PATH
environment value.
B.
Securing databases: Database being the core of any application and/or organisation and is
used to store large amounts of highly sensitive and personal information. Therefore, appropriate
technical controls should be in place to safeguard the databases and information stored in them.
The following are the guidelines for securing databases:
(a)
Implement strong encryption and key management mechanism for the information both at
rest and transit.
(b)
Implement strong hashing and salting algorithms to store passwords in the database.
(c)
Use secure credentials for database access. Remove or change all default database
administrative passwords.
(d)
Utilise strong passwords//phrases or implement multi-factor authentication.
(e)
Disable unnecessary accounts such as orphaned accounts, unused accounts, generic and
service accounts.
(f)
Enable access to the database only from the Web Server on a whitelisted port and it should
not be assigned publicly accessible IP.
(g)
TLS should be enabled in databases for secure communications between web servers and
(h)
Create admin restrictions, such as by controlling privileged access on what users can do in a
(i)
The application should use the lowest possible level of privilege when accessing the database.

5. Guidelines
(j)
Turn on node checking to verify applications and users.
(k)
Turn off all unnecessary database functionality (e.g., unnecessary stored procedures or
services, utility packages, install only the minimum set of features and options required (surface
area reduction)
(l)
Enforce a strict access control policy and introduce role-based access control (RBAC)
(m) Enable audit trail logs on the database servers.
(n)
Ensure appropriate logging and monitoring of database logs.
(o)
Consider ﬁne grained record/row level auditing based on the sensitivity of data.
(p)
Implement a backup solution to store data and system conﬁgurations from the website, web
application or web portal that should be backed up periodically.
Note: One of the best methods to keep a website/app safe is to have a good backup solution
and the user should have more than one data backup. Each of these two backups is crucial to
recovering a website after a major security incident occurs. There are several different
solutions one can use to help recover damaged or lost ﬁles. Keep the website information
off-site. Do not store the backups on the same server as of the website; they are as vulnerable
to attacks too. Choose to keep the website backup on a home computer or hard drive. Find
an off-site place to store the data and to protect it from hardware failures, hacks and viruses.
Another option is to back up the website in the cloud. It makes storing data easy and allows
access to information from anywhere. Besides choosing where to back up the website, one
must consider automating them. Use a solution where one can schedule the website/app
backups. It has to be ensured that the solution has a reliable recovery system. Be redundant
in the backup process — backup the backups. By doing this, one can recover ﬁles from any
point before the hack or virus occurs.
(q)
Keep the backup media ﬁle in safe custody and access to it should be restricted and logged.
(r)
Conduct periodic auditing of Web Application - at least once in a year or as and when any
changes are done in the source code, whichever is earlier.
(s)
Report any web application-related security incidents observed to NIC-CERT & CERT-In
immediately at Incident Response Helpdesk:
Toll free phone: CERT-In - +91-1800-11-4949
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall check that the website/ web application/ web portal/ mobile
app under evaluation has a valid security audit certiﬁcate issued by NIC/STQC/STQC empanelled
laboratory/ Cert-IN empanelled laboratory fulﬁlling Cert-IN requirements.

5. Guidelines
Beneﬁts: The goal of securing a hosting environment is to maintain the conﬁdentiality, integrity and
availability of information resources leading to successful operations. This goal is accomplished
through the implementation of security controls. Hosting service providers should follow industry
best practices for securing the hosting environment. Attacks could cause both personal
embarrassment and ﬁnancial risks. Secure hosting as well as doing regular backups save the time
and money put into the site.
Government organisation action: Think of a website’s domain name as a street address. Now, think
of the web host as the plot of “real estate” where the website exists online. As one would research
a plot of land to build a house, it needs to examine potential web hosts to ﬁnd the right one. Many
hosts provide server security features that better protect a website and its data.
A. There are certain mandatory aspects to check for when choosing a hosting service provider
(a) Ensure the hosting of the web infrastructure within geographical boundaries of India.
(b)
The government organisation to ensure the HSP is providing data centre, business continuity
plan and disaster recovery environments with state-of-the-art secure infrastructure conﬁgured in
high availability (HA) mode for hosting the websites, web applications, web portals or mobile apps
and their respective CMS.
(c) Conduct periodic drills of disaster recovery environment - at least once in a year.
(d) HSP to ensure that the servers are protected against environmental, physical and cyber threats.
(e) Ensure the HSP has implemented all security controls of the Data Centre including physical
security and appropriate access control mechanisms.
(f) Servers, Network devices used to host the website should be hardened with latest security
patches and periodic Vulnerability Assessment (VA) and Penetration Testing (PT) followed by
corrective actions should be performed as per the security policy.
(g) Ensure the HSP of the hosting environment has deployed and conﬁgured a Web Application
Firewall (WAF), which is hardened with latest security patches and is available for use by the
government organisation on demand.
Note: It sits between the website server and the data connection. The purpose is to read
every bit of data that passes through it to protect the site. Most WAFs are cloud-based and
are a plug-and-play service. The cloud service is a gateway to all incoming trafﬁc that blocks
all hacking attempts. It also ﬁlters out other types of unwanted trafﬁc, like spammers and
malicious bots.
Statement: Hosting Environment has been secured for ensuring 
conﬁdentiality, integrity and availability (CIA).

5. Guidelines
(h)
Enable and maintain logs of the ICT infrastructure for a rolling period of 180 days as per CERT-In
(i)
Regularly monitor and conduct review of alerts and logs
(j)
HSP should also ensure:
(i)
Web host offer a Secure File Transfer Protocol (SFTP);
(ii)
FTP use by unknown users is disabled; and
(iii)
It uses a rootkit scanner.
(k)
HSP should ensure to secure the containerized environments, if applicable.
Note: Containerized Workloads are much more complex than traditional workloads.
Production environments deploy massive amounts of containers. Security experts and
administrators need to secure more components in a containerized environment than they
would in traditional deployments. Container security involves the implementation and
maintenance of security controls that protect containers and the underlying infrastructure.
Integrating security into the development pipeline can help ensure that all components are
secured from the initial development phase and until the end of their lifecycle.
B.
Best practices should be used to protect the containerized environments:
(a)
Each library and tool pulled into the image poses a potential threat. To mitigate these threats,
one need to include the application within the container image. This should be a statically compiled
binary that contains all required dependencies.
(b) Remove all components the application does not need. For example, remove the “sed” and
“awk” binaries, which are present by default on any UNIX system. This can help reduce the attack
(c) If the image is not created from scratch, only trustworthy images should be taken. Public image
repositories, such as Docker Hub, can be used by anyone and may contain malware or
(d) If there is a private registry, the system administrator has to establish access controls that
deﬁne exactly who can access and publish images and who cannot perform such actions.
(e) Signatures help track images to the people who signed them. This makes it difﬁcult to substitute
the signed image for a compromised one. The Docker Content Trust mechanism provides
information about signing images. Notary - an open-source tool can help sign and verify images.
(f) Vulnerability scanners are designed to identify known vulnerabilities. These tools can help ﬁnd
critical vulnerabilities and detect critical threats. Scanners can be used on a continuous basis to
ensure that the registries do not contain critical vulnerabilities.
(g) Secure the target environment – by hardening the underlying host operating system. It can also
be established that the ﬁrewall and VPC rules or create special accounts that limit access.

5. Guidelines
(h)
Use an orchestration platform – These systems usually provide secure API endpoints as well
as role-based access control (RBAC), which can help minimise the risk of unauthorised access.
(i)
Use immutable deployments – This involves creating an instance image during the build steps.
The deployment can then use this image to create new instances. To update the application, new
images should be created, spin up new instances and then destroy the old ones.
(j)
Create separate virtual networks for the containers – This introduces a level of isolation that
can reduce the attack surface.
(k)
Apply the principle of least privilege – Allow connectivity only between containers that truly
need it.
(l)
Expose only the ports that serve the application – Do not expose any other ports, except for
SSH. Apply this principle to containers as well as the underlying machines.
(m)
Use TLS to secure communication between services – This process encrypts trafﬁc and
ensures only authorised endpoints are allowed.
(n)
Use the Docker Image policy plugin – This plugin is designed to prevent any process from
pulling images that were not previously allow-listed.
(o)
Enable TLS everywhere – enable TLS for all supported components to defend against trafﬁc
snifﬁng and authenticate identities at both ends of each connection.
(p)
Use a service mesh architecture – Service meshes are networks of persistent encrypted
connections between high-performance sidecar proxies. They provide trafﬁc monitoring,
management and policy enforcement without affecting microservices.
(q)
Use OPA – Open Policy Agent (OPA) enforces custom policies on a Kubernetes object without
reconﬁguring or recompiling the Kubernetes API server.
(r)
Apply network policies – The default Kubernetes networking permits all trafﬁc between pods,
but can be restricted with a network policy.
(s)
Implement private networks – Deploy each Kubernetes worker and master node on a private
subnet to secure the connections to corporate networks, make nodes unreachable from the public
Internet and minimise overall attack surface.
(t)
Keep the etcd cluster separate – Use a ﬁrewall to protect the etcd cluster, which stores state
and secret information and requires special protection compared to other Kubernetes
(u)
Ensure the regular rotation of encryption keys – Regularly rotating encryption keys and
certiﬁcates helps minimise the blast radius of an attack that compromises keys.
(v)
Use static analysis for YAML – Statically analyse where pod security policies deny access to
API servers. This should be part of the development workﬂow because it helps identify the
organisation’s risk tolerance and conformity requirements.
(w)
Manage secrets – Integrate clusters using a secret management system to ensure application
pods automatically receive all secrets and passwords needed at runtime (based on the app roles

5. Guidelines
associated with each pod).
(x)
Check the code – Scan the code and use static analysis to ensure automation security. Source
code must be scanned for all application code in Kubernetes to identify vulnerabilities and
(y)
Use RBAC policies based on the principle of least privilege – Role-based access control
(RBAC) helps manage access policies at a granular level to protect resources. A centralised
authentication and authorization system like single sign-on throughout the organisation makes
onboarding and offboarding easier.
Developer action: Following activities are to be ensured by the developer, which in this case would
mean its system administrator, or/and DevOps:
(a)
Restrict the admin access and implement the principle of least privilege and disable
unnecessary accounts and privileges;
(b)
Disable all unnecessary ports opened on the web server, i.e., deny all access by default;
(c)
Remove default, temporary or guest accounts from the web server; and
(d)
Change the default login credentials and implement strong password enforcement with
password expiration policy on the web server.
Note: With there being so many websites/apps, databases and programs needing passwords,
it is hard to keep track. A lot of people end up using the same password in all places, to
remember their login information. But this is a signiﬁcant security mistake. Create a unique
password for every new login request. Come up with complicated, random and difﬁcult to
guess passwords. Then, store them outside the website directory. For example, a 14-character
combination of letters and numbers may be used as a password. The password may be
stored in an ofﬂine ﬁle, a smartphone, or a different computer. When CMS prompts the user
to log in, the user must choose a smart password. The user should refrain from using personal
information in the password. The user should not use her/his birthday or a pet’s name and it
should not be guessable. After every three months or sooner, the password may be changed.
Smart passwords are long and should be at least 12 characters. Besides numbers and letters,
a password should also include symbols. The uppercase and lowercase letters may be
alternated. The same password should not be repeated and nor should it be shared with
others. The system administrators should ensure that organisation employees change their
passwords frequently.
(e)
Whitelist the application in use and disable the unused features or modules.
(f)
Use of Secure FTP (SFTP) to transfer ﬁles over an encrypted channel.
(g)
Disable Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) and enforce Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure
(HTTPS) & HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS). To keep a website safe, it needs a secure URL. If a

5. Guidelines
user uses their private information to access a site, it should use HTTPS, not HTTP, to deliver it.
Note: HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure) is a protocol used to provide security over
the Internet. HTTPS prevents interceptions and interruptions from occurring while the content
is in transit. To create a secure online connection, a website also needs an SSL Certiﬁcate. If
the website asks visitors to register, sign-up, or make a transaction of any kind, the
connection must be encrypted. SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) is another necessary website
protocol. This transfers visitor’s personal information between the website and the database.
SSL encrypts information to prevent it from others reading it while in transit. It denies those
without proper authority the ability to access the data, as well. GlobalSign is an example of an
SSL certiﬁcate that works with most websites.
(h)
Mandatorily use a valid SSL Certiﬁcate on all websites. The SSL Certiﬁcate should use at least
2048-bit SHA 256 encryption or higher.
(i)
Ensure that the SSL Certiﬁcate is valid and keep track of the certiﬁcate expiry date and take
necessary action to renew/replace the certiﬁcate before expiry.
(j)
Conﬁgure the HTTP Service banner so that Web Server and Operating System type & version
will not be disclosed.
(k)
The conﬁguration ﬁles of the Web Server must be protected by the Web Server process. One
can ﬁnd them in the root web directory. Web server conﬁguration ﬁles permit to administer server
rules. This includes directives to improve website security. There are different ﬁle types used with
every server, following may be referred for their usage:
(i)
Apache web servers use the .htaccess;
(ii)
Nginx servers use nginx.conf; and
(iii)
Microsoft IIS servers use web.conﬁg.
(l)
Open source/Freeware software should be used with due diligence.
(m) Remove or disable all superﬂuous drivers, services and software.
(n)
Remove or replace obsolete software libraries.
(o)
Remove or replace outdated security level protocols.
(p)
Limit unauthorised or unauthenticated or administrative privileged user access to the system.
Note: Initially, one may feel comfortable giving several high-level employees access to a
website. Administrative privileges are given thinking those would be used carefully. Although
this is the ideal situation, it is not always the case. Unfortunately, employees do not think about
website security when logging into the Servers or the CMS. Instead, their thoughts are on the
task at hand. If they make a mistake or overlook an issue, this can result in a signiﬁcant security
issue. It is vital to access employees before giving website access. Find out if they have
experience using the CMS and if they know what to look for to avoid a security breach.

5. Guidelines
Educate every CMS user about the importance of passwords and software updates. Tell them
all the ways they can help maintain the website’s safety. To keep track of who has access to
CMS and their administrative settings, make a record and update it often. Employees come
and go. One of the best ways to prevent security issues is to have a physical record of who
does what with the website. Be sensible when it comes to user access.
(q)
Implement encryption for the transmission of all sensitive information. This should include TLS
for protecting the connection. Disable weak cyphers (SSLv2, SSlv3, 3DES, RC4, TLS v1.0, v1.1).
(r)
Periodically review logs for suspicious activity like authentication, user access activity &
changes and privilege elevation & usage.
(s)
Implementation of network segmentation and segregation to limit the impact of network
(t)
There should be no active concurrent sessions of the web server.
(u)
Ensure servers, frameworks and system components are running the latest approved version
and have all patches issued for the version in use.
(v)
Isolate development environments from the production network and provide access only to
authorised development and test groups.
(w)
Implement a software change control system to manage and record changes to the code both
in development and production.
(x)
Establish practice of hardening web servers and conduct the periodic secure conﬁguration
review of the same.
(y)
The most common attacks against websites are entirely automated. What many attack bots
rely on is for users to have their CMS settings on default. After choosing a CMS, change default
settings immediately. Changes help prevent a large number of attacks from occurring. CMS settings
can include adjusting control comments, user visibility and permissions e.g., default setting change
using ‘ﬁle permissions.’ Permissions can be changed to specify who can do what to a ﬁle. Each ﬁle
has three permissions and a number that represents every permission:
(i) ‘Read‘ (4): View the ﬁle contents.
(ii) ‘Write‘ (2): Change the ﬁle contents.
(iii) ‘Execute‘ (1): Run the program ﬁle or script.
(iv) To clarify, to allow multiple permissions, add the numbers together e.g., to allow read (4)
and write (2), set the user permission to (6.) Along with the default ﬁle permission settings,
there are three user types:
(I) Owner – Often, the creator of the ﬁle, but ownership can be changed. Only one
user can be the owner at a time.

5. Guidelines
(II) Group – Each ﬁle is assigned to a group. Users who are part of that speciﬁc group
will gain access to the permissions of the group.
(III) Public – Everyone else.
(z)
Customise users and their permission settings. Do not keep the default settings as is,
otherwise it shall run into website security issues at some point.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall check to ensure that the Government organisation actions are
being complied.
Statement: Website has the Security Policy, Privacy Policy and the 
Contingency Management Plan clearly deﬁned policies and 
plans approved by the government organisation.
Beneﬁts: Having clearly deﬁned policies helps ensure efﬁcient management of the website/app
and its content throughout the life cycle of the website.
Government organisation action: Clearly deﬁne and approve the website/app related policies
listed above. Web Information Manager must ensure their implementation throughout the
website/app life cycle.
Developer action: Citizen-facing policies like copyright policy, privacy policy and terms and
conditions must be published on the website.
Evaluator action: The evaluator will:
(a)
Compare during the backend audit the policies given in WQM and those available at the
website/app for consistency.
(b)
Check the implementation of these policies by examining the documented records
generated by the implementation.

Lifecycle management
5.4
Statement: The government organisation has nominated a Web 
Information Manager (WIM) as deﬁned in the guidelines.
Beneﬁt: WIM can ensure a proper ﬂow of content to the website/app and ensure that content
quality and user satisfaction issues are taken care of. WIM will achieve this by coordinating with the
various groups within the government organisation and undertaking multiple activities with regard
to the Indian Government website being maintained by her/him. For instance, formulating policies
for content management to update authentic content and manage it through the entire life cycle,
e.g., creation, moderation, approval, publishing and archival getting the website certiﬁed for
guidelines conformity and ensuring conformity throughout its lifecycle.
Government organisation action: The government organisation must appoint a WIM who must be
a senior ofﬁcial not below the rank of a Joint Secretary (JS).
Developer action: Display complete contact details of the WIM on the website, so that visitors
could contact him/her in case of some queries or requirements.
Evaluator action: The evaluator will check the website for WIM details and will compare the same
with the WIM details in Website Quality Manual (WQM). Further during the backend audit the
evaluator will interview WIM to assess his/ her awareness and competence regarding the
responsibilities
5. Guidelines

5. Guidelines
Statement: It has been ensured that all stationery of the 
government organisations as well as advertisements/public 
messages issued by the concerned organisation 
prominently display the URL of the website.
Beneﬁt: By mentioning the URL prominently on all stationery and publicity material of the
government organisation, the Website can be promoted to attract visitors who may beneﬁt from
the information and services being delivered by the government organisation.
Government organisation action: The government organisations must ensure publishing of
government website URL prominently on all stationery and publicity materials such as letterheads,
visiting cards, publicity material such as brochures, pamphlets and documents such as the annual
report etc; advertisements, press releases, tender notiﬁcations etc. issued in the newspapers/
audio-visual media. Also, ensure publishing regular and updated news related to the Government
and in the interest of the citizens to attract citizens.
Developer action: Promote government websites/apps by linking with other government
websites/apps as well as international websites. Provision may be provided on the website/apps to
send regular updates on the website/app through an electronic newsletter to registered and
interested users.
Evaluator action: The evaluator will check during the backend audit by examining the stationery
(e.g., letterhead, tender document, email signature, Visiting Cards, Publicity material such as
Brochures, Pamphlets and documents such as the Annual Report etc; Advertisements, Press
Releases, Tender Notiﬁcations etc.) conformity with this.
Statement: Website has the following clearly deﬁned policies and 
plans approved by the Web Information Manager (WIM):
(a)
Copyright Policy
(b)
Content Contribution, Moderation & Approval (CMAP) policy
(c)
Content Archival (CAP) policy
(d)
Content Review (CRP) policy
(e)
Hyper linking Policy
(f)
Terms & Conditions
(g)
Website Monitoring Plan
Beneﬁt: Having clearly deﬁned policies helps ensure efﬁcient management of the website and its
content throughout the life cycle of the website.

5. Guidelines
Government organisation action: Clearly deﬁne and approve the website related policies listed
above. WIM must ensure their implementation throughout the website life cycle
Developer action: Citizen-facing policies like copyright policy, privacy policy and terms and
conditions must be published on the website.
Evaluator action: The evaluator will:
(a)
Compare during the backend audit the policies given in WQM and those available at
the website for consistency; and
(b)
Check the implementation of these policies by examining the documented records
generated by the implementation.
Statement: The mechanism is in place to check the accuracy of 
Hyperlinked Content and clear indications are given when a 
link leads out to a non-government website.
Beneﬁt: Hyperlinking content across different websites/apps can occasionally cause ambiguity in
the mind of the visitors about the owner of a particular portion of content and whom to be
contacted in case of any query. Therefore, it helps to verify content accuracy before linking to an
external website and thereafter clearly indicating when a visitor is being led to an external website.
Government organisation action: Deﬁne the Hyperlinking policy, duly approved by the WIM.
Check the accuracy of the linked content regularly.
Developer action: Ensure alert mechanism to notify the visitor when clicking any link will lead to an
external website
Evaluator action: The evaluator will check that:
(a)
The policy deﬁned in WQM is consistent with that available on the website; and
(b)
The mechanism is completely and correctly deﬁned in WQM and the same has been
implemented by examining the documented records generated by the implementation.
Statement: It is ensured through content moderation and approval 
policy that Website content is free from offensive/
discriminatory language.
Beneﬁt: Content that is free from offensive/discriminatory language helps in promoting inclusivity
and enhances the user experience, attracting visitors to frequent the website/app for information
and services they gain from.
Government organisation action: Any information in text, visual or any other media which may

5. Guidelines
offend/harm the National sentiments as well as security and integrity of the country must be
avoided on the website. The government organisations must designate the ofﬁcials who will
implement the content moderation and approval policy (content creator, moderator and/or
approver) as required.
Developer action: Ensure CMS has an in-built workﬂow for content moderation and approval.
Evaluator action: The evaluator will check that:
(a)
The policy deﬁned in WQM provides commitment to ensure that the website content
is free from offensive/ discriminatory language.
(b)
Developer action has been implemented.
(c)
Randomly picked contents fulﬁl the policy.
Statement: Documents/pages in multiple languages are 
updated simultaneously.
Beneﬁt: Helps avoid inconsistencies, at any point, between the various language versions, thus
offering visitors the same content in multiple languages.
Government organisation action: Translate all content simultaneously.
Developer action: Ensure mechanism for publishing content in multiple languages and to display
the status of non-translated content.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall check the website contents manually to see conformity with
Statement: Mechanism is in place to ensure that there 
are no ‘broken links’ (internal as well as external) or 
‘Page not found’ errors.
Beneﬁt: Presence of broken links and page not found errors will frustrate the visitors and reduce
the trust level of citizens
Government organisation action: Deﬁne the Hyperlinking policy, duly approved by the Web
Information Manager
Developer action: Ensure that ‘broken links’ or those leading to ‘Page Not Found’ errors are
checked on a regular basis and are rectiﬁed or removed from the website immediately upon
discovery. Use appropriate technology tools available for convenient discovery of broken links.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall check that the mechanism is completely and correctly
deﬁned in the WQM and verify the implementation by examining the documented records

5. Guidelines
generated by the implementation of the mechanism. Further the evaluator shall also test the
website using the tool to check broken links on the website.
Statement: There are no links to ‘under construction’ 
pages.
Beneﬁt: Visitors have a better experience when they ﬁnd content versus experiencing “under
construction” pages that convey a negative impression.
Government organisation action: Avoid any “under construction” pages as much as possible.
Also, the government organisation must provide a date in case the content is event based i.e.,
Republic Day speech of President
Developer action: Avoid publishing any pages with “under construction” / “work in progress”
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall manually test the website for this checkpoint.
Statement: Documents are provided either in HTML 
or other accessible formats.
Beneﬁt: Enhanced accessibility for all website visitors, especially the visually challenged who
should be able to use assistive technologies to read the accessible format documents.
Government organisation action: The government organisations must ensure that the accessible
version of all scanned documents is made available
Developer action: Ensure uploading of documents in HTML or other accessible formats.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall manually test the website for this checkpoint.
Statement: Website/app is bilingual with a prominent 
language selection link and uses Unicode characters.
Beneﬁt: India is a country with diverse cultures and as many as 22 languages. This will enable wider
use of websites/apps by the rich Indian demographics, a large part which is more comfortable in
regional languages versus English.
Government organisation action: Provide resources to translate all content. If difﬁcult, determine
which content is widely accessed by visitors and translate those sections to regional language.
Developer action: Ensure use of Unicode character set for regional language content and thorough
testing to ensure access by all and no loss of layout.
Evaluator action: The evaluator shall manually and through tool test the website for this

Annexure
GUIDELINES FOR INDIAN GOVERNMENT 
WEBSITES AND APPS

Annexure I
Committee composition
Annexure II
Matrix for checking conformity
Annexure III
Important terms

Committee Composition
Annexure I
he National Informatics Centre has taken the initiative to develop guidelines for the 
National Portal of India Project. These guidelines were created after extensive 
consultation with representatives from various Indian government organisations at 
both the central and state levels, as well as established guidelines from other 
countries and international bodies such as ISO and W3C.
The current version of the guidelines has made several signiﬁcant improvements. It includes 
upgraded accessibility guidelines to ensure that websites and apps can be used by the widest 
possible audience. A new chapter on security has been added to help prevent cyber threats and 
protect user data. Furthermore, the guidelines have been organised in a stakeholder-wise manner, 
providing separate views for developers, owner organisation - web information managers and 
stakeholders.
Revised by:
Ms. Alka Mishra 
Scientist-G, NIC - Chairperson
Dr. (Ms.) Seema Khanna 
Scientist-G, NIC
Sh. A. K. Upadhyaya 
Scientist-G, STQC
Sh. Durga Prasad Misra 
Scientist-F, NIC
Sh. Pankaj Sharma 
Scientist-E, Indian Computer Emergency Response Team
Ms. Shilpi Kapoor 
 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, BarrierBreak
Dr. Nirmita Narasimhan 
Programme Director Saksham & Policy Fellow, LirneAsia
Shri Lokesh Joshi 
 
Scientist-F, NIC - Member Convener

S/N Quality Guidelines: Risks Addressed
1 Association to Government is demonstrated using Emblem/Logo
in proper ratio and colour, prominently displayed on the
homepage/homescreen of the website/app. Q8
2 Ownership information is displayed on thehomepage/
homescreen and on all important entry pages/screens of the
website/app and each subsequent page/screen is a standalone
entity in terms of ownership, navigation and context of content. Q8
3 Source of all documents, not owned by the dept. that have been
reproduced in part or full, is mentioned. Q3
4 Due permissions have been obtained for publishing any content
protected by copyright. Q3
5 Homepage/homescreen of website displays the last
updated/reviewed date. Q7
6 Complete information including title, size, format and usage
instructions is provided for all downloadable material. Q7
7 Statement: With respect to each, Circular, Notification,
Document, Form, Scheme, Service and Recruitment notice, the
following should be clearly listed on the Website:
(a) Complete title
(b) Language (if other than English)
(c) Purpose/procedure to apply (as applicable)
(d) Validity (if applicable) Q7
8 All outdated Announcements, Tenders, Recruitment notices,
News and Press Releases are removed from the website and/or
placed into the archives as per the archival policy. Q7
Annexure II
Matrix to check conformity

9 All information about the government organisation, useful for the
citizen and other stakeholders, is present in the ‘About Us’
section and a mechanism is in place to keep the information up
to date. Q6, Q7
10 Website has a ‘Contact Us’ page providing complete contact
details of important functionaries in the government
organisation and this is linked from the homepage/homescreen
and all relevant places on the website/app. Q6, Q7
11 Feedback is collected through online forms and a mechanism is
in place to ensure timely response to feedback/queries received
through the website. Q10
12 Website provides a prominent link to the ‘National Portal’ from
the homepage and subsequent pages belonging to the National
Portal load in the new browser window. Q7
13 The website has been tested on multiple browsers.
Hindi/Regional language fonts have been tested on popular
browsers for any inconsistency (loss of layout). Q9
14 The website has a readily available Help section linked from all
pages of the website. Q6, Q7
15 Website uses Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to control
layouts/styles and incorporates responsive design features to
ensure that the interface displays well on different screen sizes. Q9
16 Website is readable even when style sheets are switched off or
not loaded. Q9
17 Proper page title and language attribute along with metadata for
page like keywords and description are appropriately included. Q9
18 Minimum content as prescribed in the guidelines is present on
the homepage/homescreen and all subsequent pages/screens. Q6, Q7
Annexure II

ata tables have been provided with necessary tags/markup. Q9
ontent of the web page prints correctly on an A4 size paper Q9
PI integration with key government platforms (India Portal,
giLocker, Aadhaar, Single-Sign-On, MyGov, Data Platform,
yScheme) and similar websites of the government organisation
ust be enabled for seamless exchange of Information and data. Q7, Q8, Q10
he government organisation must ensure a consistent user
perience and visual identities across all its websites/apps. Q1, Q4, Q9
ebsites/apps must provide integration with popular social
edia. Q1, Q3, Q5, Q7
ebsite is in the nic.in or gov.in domain. Educational Institutions
d Research and Academic Institutions, which are eligible for
gistration under ‘gov.in’ may use ‘edu.in’, ‘res.in’ or ‘ac.in’
omains. Q8
he language is free from spelling and grammatical errors. Q7, Q9
Annexure II

S/N Accessibility Guidelines: Reference Risks Addressed
1 All non-text content that is presented to the
user has a text alternative that serves the
ht
equivalent purpose, except for the situations
listed below. A1
ht tps://wwWw.w3.orCg/WAIA/WCAGG21/Un d2ersta.n1din g/-non- te1xt-.c1ont.e1nt.html
2 For pre-recorded audio-only and
pre-recorded video-only media, the following
are true, except when the audio or video is a
media alternative for text and is clearly
labelled as such:
(a) Pre-recorded Audio-only: An
alternative for time-based media is provided
htt
that presents equivalent information for
pre-recorded audio-only content.
(b) Pre-recorded Video-only: Either an
alternative for time-based media or an audio
track is provided that presents equivalent
information for pre-recorded video-only
content. A1
htt ps://wwWw.w3.org/WCAI/WCAAG21/UnGderstand ing2/audio.-o1nly -an-d-vid eo1-on.ly-2prerec.or1ded.html
3 Captions are provided for all pre-recorded
audio content in synchronised media, except
htt
when the media is a media alternative for text
and is clearly labelled as such. htt ps://wwWw.w3.org/WCAI/WCAGA21/UndeGrstandin g/c2aption.s-p1rere co-rded.h tm1l#d.fn-2synchr.oni2zed-media A1
4 An alternative for time-based media or audio
description of the pre-recorded video content
htt
is provided for synchronised media, except
when the media is a media alternative for text
and is clearly labelled as such. htt ps://wwWw.w3.org/WCAI/WCAGA21/UndeGrstanding /au2dio-de.sc1ripti on--or-me dia1-alt.ern2ative-p.re3recorded.ht ml
A1
5 Captions are provided for all live audio content
ht
in synchronised media. ht tps:/W/www.wC3.org/AWAI/GWCAG 221/Und.e1rs ta-ndin g/1ca.pt2ions.-l4ive.htm l A1
6 Audio description is provided for all
pre-recorded video content in synchronised
htt
media. htt ps://wWww.w3.orCg/WAI/AWCAG2G1/Unde rst2andin.g/1aud io--desc rip1tio.n-2prere.co5rded.htm l A1
7 Information, structure and relationships
conveyed through presentation can be
ht
programmatically determined or are available
in text. ht tps://Wwww.w3.Corg/WAAI/WCGAG21/U n2derst.an1din g-/info -a1nd-.re3latio.ns1hips.htm l A6, A9
Annexure II

8 When the sequence in which content is
presented affects its meaning, a correct
h
reading sequence can be programmatically
determined. ttps://Wwww.w3C.org/WAAI/WCGAG21/ Un2ders.ta1nd ing-/me an1ing.fu3l-seq.u2ence A6, A9
9 Instructions provided for understanding and
operating content do not rely solely on sensory
characteristics of components such as shape, h
colour, size, visual location, orientation, or
sound. ttps://Wwww.w3C.org/WAAI/WCGAG21/ Un2ders.ta1nd ing-/sen so1ry.-c3harac.te3ristics A1, A2, A3, A4
10 Content does not restrict its view and
operation to a single display orientation, such
h
as portrait or landscape, unless a specific
display orientation is essential. ttps://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/orientation
WCAG 2.1 -1.3.4 A4, A5
11 The purpose of each input field collecting
information about the user can be
programmatically determined when:
(a) The input field serves a purpose
h
identified in the Input Purposes for User
Interface Components section; and
(b) The content is implemented using
technologies with support for identifying the
expected meaning for form input data. ttps://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/identify-input-purpose
WCAG 2.1-1.3.5 A6
12 Colour is not used as the only visual means of
conveying information, indicating an action,
h
prompting a response, or distinguishing a
visual element. ttps://Wwww.w3C.org/WAAI/WGCAG2 1/2Unde.rs1ta nd-ing/ us1e-.of4-colo.r.h1tml A1
13 If any audio on a Web page plays automatically
for more than 3 seconds, either a mechanism is
available to pause or stop the audio, or a
h
mechanism is available to control audio
volume independently from the overall system
volume level. ttps:/W/www.wC3.org/AWAI/WGCAG2 1/2Und.er1sta n-ding /a1ud.io4-cont.ro2l.html A4, A5
Annexure II

14 The visual presentation of text and images of
text has a contrast ratio of at least 4.5:1, except
for the following:
(a) Large Text: (18 pt. or 14 pt. bold)
Large-scale text and images of large-scale text
have a contrast ratio of at least 3:1.
(b) Incidental: Text or images of text that
are part of an inactive user interface htt
component, that are pure decoration, that are
not visible to anyone, or that are part of a
picture that contains significant other visual
content, have no contrast requirement.
(c) Logotypes: Text that is part of a logo or
brand name has no contrast requirement. ps:/W/www.w3C.org/WAAI/WGCAG21 /U2nder.st1and in-g/co nt1ras.t-4minim.u3m A1
15 Except for captions and images of text, text
can be resized without assistive technology up
ht
to 200 percent without loss of content or
functionality. ht tpsW://wwwC.w3.oArg/WGAI/WC A2G21./U1nd e-rsta n1din.g4/resi.ze4-tex A1, A4
16 If the technologies being used can achieve the
visual presentation, text is used to convey
information rather than images of text except
for the following:
(a) Customizable: The image of text can be ht
visually customised to the user's requirements.
(b) Essential: A particular presentation of
text is essential to the information being
conveyed. tpsW://wwwC.w3.orAg/WAGI/WCA G221/U n1de rs-tand in1g/.im4ages.-5of -text A1
17 (a) Content can be presented without loss
of information or functionality and without
requiring scrolling in two dimensions for:
(b) Vertical scrolling content at a width
equivalent to 320 CSS pixels.
(c) Horizontal scrolling content at a height
ht
equivalent to 256 CSS pixels.
(d) Except for parts of the content which
require a two-dimensional layout for usage or
meaning. tpsW://www.Cw3.orAg/WAGI/WC AG221/.U1nd-erst1an.di4ng/re.fl1ow0.html A6
htt ps:/W/www.w3C.org/WAAI/WGCAG21 /U2nder.st1and in-g/co nt1ras.t-4minim.u3m
ht tpsW://wwwC.w3.orAg/WAGI/WCA G221/U n1de rs-tand in1g/.im4ages.-5of -te
ht tpsW://www.Cw3.orAg/WAGI/WC AG221/.U1nd-erst1an.di4ng/re.fl1ow0.html
Annexure II

18 The visual presentation of the following has a
contrast ratio of at least 3:1 against adjacent
colour(s):
(a) User Interface Components: Visual
information required to identify user interface
components and states, except for inactive
components or where the appearance of the htt
component is determined by the user agent
and not modified by the author.
(b) Graphical Objects: Parts of graphics
required to understand the content, except
when a particular presentation of graphics is
essential to the information being conveyed. ps:/W/www.wC3.org/WAAI/WGCAG2 1/2Unde.r1sta-ndin g/1no.n-4text-.c1ont1rast A6
19 In content implemented using markup
languages that support the following text style
properties, no loss of content or functionality
occurs by setting all of the following and by
changing no other style property:
(a) Line height (line spacing) to at least 1.5
times the font size.
(b) Spacing following paragraphs to at least
ht
2 times the font size.
(c) Letter spacing (tracking) to at least 0.12
times the font size.
(d) Word spacing to at least 0.16 times the
font size.
(e) Exception: Human languages and
scripts that do not make use of one or more of
these text style properties in written text can
conform using only the properties that exist for
that combination of language and script. tps:W//www.wC3.orgA/WAIG/WCA G221/Un.d1er-stan d1ing./t4ext-s.p1ac2ing A6
htt ps:/W/www.wC3.org/WAAI/WGCAG2 1/2Unde.r1sta-ndin g/1no.n-4text-.c1ont1ra
ht tps:W//www.wC3.orgA/WAIG/WCA G221/Un.d1er-stan d1ing./t4ext-s.p1ac2in
Annexure II

Where receiving and then removing pointer
hover or keyboard focus triggers additional
content to become visible and then hidden,
the following are true:
(a) Dismissible: A mechanism is available to
dismiss the additional content without moving
pointer hover or keyboard focus unless the
additional content communicates an input
error or does not obscure or replace other
content.
(b) Hover-able: If pointer hover can trigger http
the additional content, then the pointer can be
moved over the additional content without the
additional content disappearing.
(c) Persistent: The additional content
remains visible until the hover or focus trigger
is removed, the user dismisses it, or its
information is no longer valid. s://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/content-on-hover-or-focus
WCAG 2.1-1.4.13 A4, A5, A 6
All functionality of the content is operable
through a keyboard interface without requiring
specific timings for individual keystrokes,
except where the underlying function requires htt
input that depends on the path of the user's
movement and not just the endpoints. ps://Wwww.w3C.org/AWAI/WGCAG 212/Und.e1rst an-din g/2keyb.o1ard..h1tml A 5
If keyboard focus can be moved to a
component of the page using a keyboard
interface, then focus can be moved away from
that component using only a keyboard
htt
interface and, if it requires more than
unmodified arrow or tab keys or other standard
exit methods, the user is advised of the
method for moving focus away. ps://Wwww.w3C.org/WAAI/WGCAG2 1/U2nde.rs1ta nd-ing/ no2-key.b1oa.rd2-trap A 5
htt ps://Wwww.w3C.org/AWAI/WGCAG 212/Und.e1rst an-din g/2keyb.o1ard
htt ps://Wwww.w3C.org/WAAI/WGCAG2 1/U2nde.rs1ta nd-ing/ no2-key.b1oa.rd2-trap
Annexure II

23 If a keyboard shortcut is implemented in
content using only letter (including upper- and
lower-case letters), punctuation, number, or
symbol characters, then at least one of the
following is true:
(a) Turn off: A mechanism is available to
turn the shortcut off.
htt
(b) Remap: A mechanism is available to
remap the shortcut to include one or more
non-printable keyboard keys (e.g., Ctrl, Alt).
(c) Active only on focus: The keyboard
shortcut for a user interface component is only
active when that component has focus. ps://Wwww.w3.Corg/WAAI/WCGAG21/U nd2ersta.n1din g/–chara ct2er-ke.y-1sh.ort4cuts A5
24 For each time limit that is set by the content, at
least one of the following is true:
(a) Turn off: The user is allowed to turn off
the time limit before encountering it; or Adjust:
The user is allowed to adjust the time limit
before encountering it over a wide range that is
at least ten times the length of the default
setting; or
(b) Extend: The user is warned before time
expires and given at least 20 seconds to
extend the time limit with a simple action (for htt
example, "press the spacebar") and the user is
allowed to extend the time limit at least ten
times; or
(c) Real-time Exception: The time limit is a
required part of a real-time event (for example,
an auction) and no alternative to the time limit
is possible; or
(d) Essential Exception: The time limit is
essential and extending it would invalidate the
activity; or
(e) 20 Hour Exception: The time limit is
longer than 20 hours. ps://wWww.w3.orCg/WAI/AWCAGG21/Und e2rstand.in1g/ tim-ing- ad2justa.ble2.htm.l1 A4
htt ps://wWww.w3.orCg/WAI/AWCAGG21/Und e2rstand.in1g/ tim-ing- ad2justa.ble2.html
Annexure II

25 For moving, blinking, scrolling, or auto-updating
information, all of the following are true:
(a) Moving, blinking, scrolling: For any
moving, blinking or scrolling information that (1)
starts automatically, (2) lasts more than five
seconds and (3) is presented in parallel with
other content, there is a mechanism for the
user to pause, stop, or hide it unless the
movement, blinking, or scrolling is part of an
activity where it is essential; and http
(b) Auto-updating: For any auto-updating
information that (1) starts automatically and (2)
is presented in parallel with other content,
there is a mechanism for the user to pause,
stop, or hide it or to control the frequency of
the update unless the auto-updating is part of
an activity where it is essential. s://Wwww.w3C.org/WAAI/WGCAG2 1/2Unde.rs1ta nd-ing/ pa2use-.st2op-h.id2e A2, A4
26 Web pages do not contain anything that
flashes more than three times in any one
https
second period, or the flash is below the general
flash and red flash thresholds. https ://wwWw.w3.org/WCAI/WCAAG21/UGnderstan din2g/thre.e-1flas he-s-or- be2low-th.res3hold.h.tm1l A2
27 A mechanism is available to bypass blocks of
content that are repeated on multiple Web http
pages. A6
28 Web pages have titles that describe the topic
or purpose. htt ps:/W/www.wC3.orgA/WAGI/WCA G221/U.n1de rs-tan d2ing/p.a4ge-t.itl2ed A6
htt ps:/W/www.wC3.orgA/WAGI/WCA G221/U.n1de rs-tan d2ing/p.a4ge-t.itle
29 If a Web page can be navigated sequentially
and the navigation sequences affect meaning
or operation, focusable components receive http
focus in an order that preserves meaning and
operability. s:/W/www.wC3.orgA/WAI/GWCAG 221/Un.d1ers t-andi ng2/foc.u4s-ord.e3r A6
30 The purpose of each link can be determined
from the link text alone or from the link text
together with its programmatically determined http
link context, except where the purpose of the
link would be ambiguous to users in general. s://wWww.w3.oCrg/WAAI/WCAGG21/Un de2rstan.d1ing /li-nk-p ur2pose-.in4-cont.ex4t A6
http s://wWww.w3.oCrg/WAAI/WCAGG21/Un de2rstan.d1ing /li-nk-p ur2pose-.in4-cont.ext
http s://Wwww.w3C.org/WAAI/WGCAG2 1/2Unde.rs1ta nd-ing/ pa2use-.st2op-h.ide
http s:/W/www.wC3.orgA/WAI/GWCAG 221/Un.d1ers t-andi ng2/foc.u4s-ord.er
Annexure II

31 More than one way is available to locate a Web
page within a set of Web pages except where
htt
the Web Page is the result of, or a step in, a
process. psW://wwwC.w3.orAg/WAGI/WC A2G21/.U1nd e-rsta n2ding./m4ultip.le- 5 ways A6
32 Headings and labels describe topic or
htt
purpose. ps:/W/www.wC3.org/AWAI/WGCAG2 1/2Und.er1sta n-ding /h2eadin.g4s-and.-la 6 bels A6, A9
33 Any keyboard operable user interface has a
mode of operation where the keyboard focus http
indicator is visible. s://Wwww.wC3.org/AWAI/GWCA G221/Un.d1er st-and in2g/fo.c4us-vi.sib 7le A4
34 All functionality that uses multipoint or
path-based gestures for operation can be
operated with a single pointer without a htt
path-based gesture, unless a multipoint or
path-based gesture is essential. A4
35 For functionality that can be operated using a
single pointer, at least one of the following is
true:
(a) No Down-Event: The down-event of the
pointer is not used to execute any part of the
function.
htt
(b) Abort or Undo: Completion of the
function is on the up-event and a mechanism
is available to abort the function before
completion or to undo the function after
completion.
(c) Up Reversal: The up-event reverses any
outcome of the preceding down-event.
(d) Essential: Completing the function on
the down-event is essential. A4
36 For user interface components with labels that
include text or images of text, the name htt
contains the text that is presented visually. ps://Wwww.wC3.org/AWAI/GWCAG 221/Und.e1rs-tand in2g/la.be5l-in-.na3m e A9
Annexure II

37 Functionality that can be operated by device
motion or user motion can also be operated by
user interface components and responding to
the motion can be disabled to prevent
accidental actuation, except when:
(a) Supported Interface: The motion is used
to operate functionality through an
accessibility supported interface.
(b) Essential: The motion is essential for the
function and doing so would invalidate the
activity.
(c) Functionality that can be operated by
device motion or user motion must also be
htt
operable by user interface components and
responding to the motion can be disabled to
prevent accidental actuation, except when:
(d) Supported Interface: The motion is used
to operate functionality through an
accessibility supported interface.
(e) Essential: The motion is essential for the
function and doing so would invalidate the
activity. ps:/W/www.wC3.orgA/WAIG/WCAG 221/Un.d1ers-tan di2ng/m.o5tion-.a4ctuation A5
38 The default human language of each Web page
http
can be programmatically determined. http s://wWww.w3.oCrg/WAAI/WCAGG21/Un d2erstan.d1ing /la-ngua g3e-of-.pa1ge..ht1ml A1, A6, A7
39 The human language of each passage or phrase
in the content can be programmatically
determined except for proper names,
technical terms, words of indeterminate
htt
language and words or phrases that have
become part of the vernacular of the
immediately surrounding text. ps://Wwww.w3C.org/AWAI/WGCAG 212/Und.er1sta n-ding /l3angu.ag1e-.o2f-parts A1, A6, A7
40 When any user interface component receives
htt
focus, it does not initiate a change of context. htt ps:W//www.wC3.orAg/WAGI/WCA G221/U.n1de r-stan d3ing/o.n2-foc.u1s.ht A6
41 Changing the setting of any user interface
component does not automatically cause a
change of context unless the user has been htt
advised of the behaviour before using the
component. psW://wwwC.w3.oArg/WGAI/W C2AG2.1/1Un d-ers ta3ndin.g2/on-.in2put A 6
htt ps:/W/www.wC3.orgA/WAIG/WCAG 221/Un.d1ers-tan di2ng/m.o5tion-.a4ctuat
htt psW://wwwC.w3.oArg/WGAI/W C2AG2.1/1Un d-ers ta3ndin.g2/on-.in2pu
Annexure II

42 Navigational mechanisms that are repeated on
multiple Web pages within a set of Web pages
occur in the same relative order each time h
they are repeated, unless a change is initiated
by the user. ttps:W//www.wC3.org/WAAI/WGCAG21/ U2nders.ta1nd ing-/con si3stent.-n2aviga.tio3n A6
43 Components that have the same functionality
within a set of Web pages are identified ht
consistently. tps://Wwww.w3C.org/WAAI/WCGAG21/U n2derst.a1ndi ng-/con sis3tent-.id2entifi.c4ation A6
44 If an input error is automatically detected, the
item that is in error is identified and the error is htt
described to the user in text. ps://wWww.w3.oCrg/WAAI/WCAGG21/Un d2ersta.n1din g/-error -i3denti.fic3ation..h1tml A6
45 Labels or instructions are provided when http
content requires user input. s://wWww.w3.oCrg/WAAI/WCAGG21/Un d2ersta.nd1ing /la-bels -o3r-ins.tru3ction.s A9
46 If an input error is automatically detected and
suggestions for correction are known, then the
suggestions are provided to the user, unless it http
would jeopardise the security or purpose of
the content. s://wWww.w3C.org/WAAI/WGCAG 212/Und.e1rst an-din g/3error.-s3ugg.es3tion A4, A6
47 For Web pages that cause legal commitments
or financial transactions for the user to occur,
that modify or delete user-controllable data in
data storage systems, or that submit user test
responses, at least one of the following is true:
htt
(a) Reversible: Submissions are reversible.
(b) Checked: Data entered by the user is
checked for input errors and the user is
provided an opportunity to correct them.
(c) Confirmed: A mechanism is available for
reviewing, confirming and correcting
information before finalising the submission. ps://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/error-prevention-legal-financial-data
WCAG 2.1 - 3.3.4 A 8
Annexure II

48 In content implemented using mar
languages, elements have complete start
end tags, elements are nested according
their specifications, elements do not cont
duplicate attributes and any IDs are uniq
except where the specifications allow th
features. kup
and
to
ain
https://Wwww.w3C.org/AWAI/GWCAG 221/Und.e1rs ta-ndin g4/pars.in1g.h.t1ml
ue,
ese
49 For all user interface components (includ
but not limited to form elements, links
components generated by scripts), the na
and role can be programmatically determin
states, properties and values that can be
by the user can be programmatically set;
notification of changes to these items
available to user agents, including assist
technologies. ing
and
me
ed;
set https://Wwww.w3C.org/WAAI/WGCAG21 /U2nder.st1an di-ng/n am4e-ro.le1-va.lu2e
and
is
ive
50 In content implemented using mar
languages, status messages can
programmatically determined through role
properties such that they can be presented
the user by assistive technologies with
receiving focus. kup
be
or
https://Wwww.w3C.org/WAAI/WCGAG21/U nd2ersta.n1din–g/stat us4-mes.sa1ges..h3tml
to
out
Annexure II

S/N Security Guidelines Risks Addressed
1 Ensure that the website, web application, web portal or mobile
app is Security Audited and an Audit Clearance certificate is
issued by NIC, STQC or a CERT-In empanelled vendor before
hosting in production environment. S1- S15
2 Hosting Environment must be secured for ensuring
confidentiality, integrity and availability (CIA). S1- S15
3 Website has the Security Policy, Privacy Policy and the
Contingency Management Plan clearly defined policies and
plans approved by the government organisation. S1- S15
Annexure II

S/N Lifecycle Management Guidelines Risks Addressed
1 The government organisation has nominated a WIM as defined
in the guidelines. Q1
2 It has been ensured that all stationery of the government
organisation as well as advertisements/public messages issued
by the government organisation concerned prominently display
the URL of the web site. Q2
3 Website has the following clearly defined policies and plans
approved by the WIM.
(a) Copyright Policy
(b) Content Contribution, Moderation and Approval (CMAP)
policy
(c) Content Archival (CAP) policy
(d) Content Review (CRP) policy
(e) Hyper linking Policy
(f) Privacy Policy
(g) Terms & Conditions
(h) Website Monitoring Plan.
(i) Contingency Management Plan
(j) Security Policy Q3, Q4,
Q5, Q7
4 The mechanism is in place to check the accuracy of
Hyperlinked Content and clear indications are given when a link
leads out to a non-government website. Q4
5 It is ensured through content moderation and approval policy
that Website content is free from offensive/discriminatory
language. Q7
6 Documents/Pages in multiple languages are updated
simultaneously. Q7
7 Mechanism is in place to ensure that there are no ‘broken links’
(internal as well as external) or ‘Page not found’ errors. Q7
8 There are no links to ‘under construction’ pages. Q7
9 Documents are provided either in HTML or other accessible
formats. Q9
10 Website is bilingual with a prominent language selection link and
uses Unicode characters. Q9, Q6, Q7
Annexure II

NIC National Informatics Centre
UT Union Territory
UUU Usable, User-Centric and Universally Accessible
ISO International Organisation for Standardization
WCAG Web Content Accessibility Guidelines
STQC Standardization Testing & Quality Certification
ICT Information and Communications Technology
GIGW Guidelines for Indian Government Websites and Apps
HTTPS Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure
HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol
XSS Cross-Site Scripting
DOM Document Object Model
CMS Content Management System
NPI National Portal of India
CSS Cascading Style Sheets
UI User Interface
URL Uniform Resource Locator
ALT Alternative Text
Annexure III
Important terms

CAPTCHA Completely Automated Public Turing Test to Tell Computers and
Humans Apart
HTML Hypertext Markup Language
OCR Optical Character Recognition
PDF Portable Document Format
ID Identification
FTP File Transfer Protocol
WAF Web Application Firewall
DMZ Demilitarized Zone
IDPS Intrusion Detection and Prevention System
HSTS HTTP Strict Transport Security
SSL Secure Sockets Layer
IIS Internet Information Services
SSL Secure Sockets Layer
DES Data Encryption Standard
3DES Triple Data Encryption Standard
RC Rivest Cipher
SHA Secure Hash Algorithm
API Application Programming Interface
Annexure III
Important terms

MFA Multi-Factor Authentication
OWASP Open Web Application Security Project
PATH Personal Access Token Holder
IP Internet Protocol
RBAC Role-Based Access Control
UNIX Universal Operating System
VPC Virtual Private Cloud
SSH Secure Shell
OPA Open Policy Agent
YAML Yet Another Markup Language
SSO Single Sign-On
CERT-In Indian Computer Emergency Response Team
WIM Web Information Manager
JS Joint Secretary
WQM Website Quality Manual
CMAP Content Contribution, Moderation & Approval policy
CAP Content Archival (CAP) policy
CRP Content Review (CRP) policy
Annexure III
Important terms

Annexure lV
Web Information Manager
The success of any endeavour depends upon the backing of a strong and enthusiastic team. In case 
of a Government website, the role of a Website management team assumes paramount importance 
in ensuring its credibility amongst its patrons.
Departments MUST appoint a Web Information Manager (WIM) whose role shall be to ensure that 
there is a proper flow of content to the site and that content quality and user satisfaction issues are 
taken care of. To achieve this WIM has to coordinate with the various groups within the Department 
and undertake the following activities with regard to the Indian Government website being 
maintained by her/him.
Formulation of policies concerning management of content on the web through its entire life 
cycle viz. Creation, Moderation, Approval, Publishing and Archival. Ensuring that all content 
on the website is always authentic, up-to-date and obsolete information or services are 
removed.
Set a mechanism for periodically validating links to related information. An automated report 
can provide a list of broken links on the site, which can be immediately corrected.
Getting the website certified for Guideline Compliance and ensuring that it remains 
compliant throughout its lifecycle.
Web Information Manager is overall responsible for quality and quantity of information and 
services on the website. The complete contact details of the Web Information Manager 
should be displayed on the website, so that the visitor could contact him/her in case of some 
queries or requirements.
Since the websites receive a signifcant amount of feedback/query mails from the visitors, it 
is the responsibility of the Web Information Manager to either reply to all of them himself/her 
self or designate someone to regularly check and respond to the feedback/query mails.
Besides the Web Information Manager, a Technical Team should also be appointed for every Indian 
Government website whose responsibilities would be:
Regular monitoring of website for Performance, Security and Availability.
Ensuring compliance with policies (organisational, regulatory, legislative, etc.) that may 
require changes in website content, architecture, and security.
Periodic security audit of the website in line with major revisions.
Analysis of trafc on website and provide feedback to management.

Web Technology Division