SOURCE_PDF: f466a3270b02_Newsletter-May-2024-638748038046134229.pdf

MESSAGE
ACHIEVEMENTS
EVENTS
CONTACT
VOLUME 02
INSIGHTS
Welcome to the School of Liberal Arts at
Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur, a
dynamic hub of interdisciplinary exploration
and academic excellence. It aims to cultivate
well-rounded individuals with a passion for
arts, humanities, and social sciences.
Through a diverse range of activities, our
faculty 
engages 
students 
in 
thought-
provoking 
discussions, 
fostering 
critical
thinking and global awareness. But it is not
just about academics; our vibrant school
offers a plethora of activities, promoting
holistic development and social interaction.
Join us in a community where learning is
both rigorous and exciting, where every day
brings new opportunities for intellectual
growth and personal discovery.
NEWSLETTER
SCHOOL OF LIBERAL ARTS,
IIT JODHPUR
ISSUE NO.02
MAY 2024
VOLUME 02
ISSUE NO.02

Message from the Head
Events
Faculty Achievements
Student Achievements
We are back with the latest issue of ‘Insights’- the biannual newsletter of School of Liberal Arts, IIT Jodhpur.
This issue will give you a glimpse of the academic activities, social gatherings, and extracurricular engagements of the school in the last six months. The following pages will take you through various events, research and scholarly achievements of faculty and students, and their creative endeavours.
We are back with the latest
issue of ‘Insights’- the biannual
newsletter of School of Liberal
Arts, IIT Jodhpur.
Message from the Head
Events
Faculty Achievements
Student Achievements
SoLA Stories
Contact Us
Sumit K Singh
Dr. Sreedevi D
Achyut N Sapkal
Sumit K Singh
Dr. Sumana Som
Aryamaan Mohapatra

PhD ORIENTATION
We welcomed our new cohort of PhD scholars with an orientation and an informal interaction with the
faculty on 4 January 2024. The Department Research Committee (DRC) initiated the orientation by
introducing the programme structure to the new batch of research scholars in detail followed by an
interaction with the faculty.
MESSAGE
ACHIEVEMENTS
EVENTS
CONTACT
We welcomed our new cohort of PhD scholars with an orientation and an informal interaction with the faculty on 4 January 2024. The Department Research Committee (DRC) initiated the orientation by introducing the programme structure to the new batch of research scholars in detail followed by an interaction with the faculty.
Winter School

MESSAGE
ACHIEVEMENTS
School of Liberal Arts (SoLA) organised the second edition of its winter school, Frontiers of Computational Social Sciences, on January 12-13, 2024. Eminent speakers like Mr. Antony Cyriac, Additional Economic Advisor to the Government of India, Dr. Sachin Gulati from American Express, Dr. Siddhartha Sarkar and Mr. Suman Kumar, Behavioural Business and Social Science, TCS, Dr. Lloyd Johannes Blum, Ecological Solutions in Rural Development, Virginia Dare Extract Co., USA (joined online), Prof. Rowena Robinson and Prof. Anush Kapadia from IIT Bombay, and Prof. Muhammad Azeem Khan from IIM Indore, discussed the major challenges and questions related to the discipline. The two-day event had a series of engaging sessions.
CONTACT
School of Liberal Arts (SoLA) organised the second edition of its winter school, Frontiers of
Computational Social Sciences, on January 12-13, 2024. Eminent speakers like Mr. Antony Cyriac,
Additional Economic Advisor to the Government of India, Dr. Sachin Gulati from American Express,
Dr. Siddhartha Sarkar and Mr. Suman Kumar, Behavioural Business and Social Science, TCS, Dr. Lloyd
Johannes Blum, Ecological Solutions in Rural Development, Virginia Dare Extract Co., USA (joined
online), Prof. Rowena Robinson and Prof. Anush Kapadia from IIT Bombay, and Prof. Muhammad
Azeem Khan from IIM Indore, discussed the major challenges and questions related to the discipline.
The two-day event had a series of engaging sessions.
School of Liberal Arts actively took part in the 4th edition of IIT Jodhpur’s Industry Day held on 1-2,
 February 2024. School received appreciation for its diverse research activities and its master
s programme, MSc in Computational Social Sciences from industry professionals. The unique indust
ry relevan ce of t he M Sc C SS progr am m et wi th considerab le interes t. In additio n, ongo
ing interdisciplin ary resea rch proje cts by the facu lty and speci fic proje cts underta ken by MSc
 CSS students were received with interest. The active participation and presentation by the students
 were also appreciated at the Institute level.
Industry Day

This year’s Distinguished lecture was delivered by Dr. Montek Singh Ahluwalia on 17th January 2024 at
Jodhpur Club. The lecture, "Development Challenges Ahead", invoked many pertinent questions
related to India’s economy and development. The lecture has invited wide participation from the IITJ
community.
Distinguished Lecture
MESSAGE
ACHIEVEMENTS
This year’s Distinguished lecture was delivered by Dr. Montek Singh Ahluwalia on 17th January 2024 at Jodhpur Club. The lecture, "Development Challenges Ahead", invoked many pertinent questions related to India’s economy and development. The lecture has invited wide participation from the IITJ community.
CONTACT
Screening of the film, ‘Family’ was held on March 1, 2024 followed by an interactive session with the filmmaker Don Palathara.
Screening of the film, ‘Family’ was held on March 1, 2024 followed by an interactive session with the
filmmaker Don Palathara.

SoLA Seminar Series
MESSAGE
Dr. Meera Mary Sunny, Associate Professor, IIT Gandhinagar, spoke on “How we do what we do: Idealism and pragmatism in measurement” (online) on January 22, 2024
EVENTS
Prof. Pravesh Jung Golay, Professor, IIT Bombay delivered an online lecture titled, ‘On the Cusp of Rupture: Ontology of Freedom through Kant and Nietzsche’ on March 26, 2024.
Dr. Meera Mary Sunny, Associate Professor, IIT Gandhinagar,
spoke on “How we do what we do: Idealism and pragmatism in
measurement” (online) on January 22, 2024
Dr. Satinder Singh Rekhi’s lecture titled “Who’s running yo
ur life – you o r your m onke y br ain?” he ld on 25 January 2 02
4 at LHB 105.
Dr. Satinder Singh Rekhi’s lecture titled “Who’s running your
life – you or your monkey brain?” held on 25 January 2024 at
LHB 105.Lecture Demonstration by Ms. Suhasini Seelin, titled, ‘ AI as an Actor: Experiments with Embodied AI in Theatre’, held on 23 February 2024 at LHB 308.
Lecture Demonstration by Ms. Suhasini Seelin, titled, ‘ AI as an
Actor: Experiments with Embodied AI in Theatre’, held on 23
February 2024 at LHB 308.

FACULTY ACHIEVEMENTS
Farhat Naz
Publications:
Nizamuddin Auliya: The Saint of Basti Nizamuddin, New
Delhi, India,’ In Anna-Daan, Food Charity in India- Preaching
and Practices, (eds.) K.V.Raju and S. Manasi, Routledge:
London and New York, 2024, pp. 604-610.
‘Ajmer Dargah Sharif: Khawja Gharib Nawaz – (benefactor of
the poor) Ajmer, Rajasthan, India,’ In Anna-Daan, Food
Charity in India- Preaching and Practices, (eds.) K.V.Raju and
S. Manasi, Routledge: London and New York,2024, pp. 612-
616, (co-author Kritika Mishra)
Book review:
Publicat
ions:
Nizamuddin Auliya: The Saint of Basti Nizamuddin, New Delhi, India,’ In Anna-Daan, Food Charity in India- Preaching and Practices, (eds.) K.V.Raju and S. Manasi, Routledge: London and New York, 2024, pp. 604-610.
‘Ajmer Dargah Sharif: Khawja Gharib Nawaz – (benefactor 
of the p oor ) Ajmer, Ra jasthan, In dia,’ In Anna-Da
an, Food Charity in India- Preaching and Practices, (eds.) 
K.V.Raj u a nd S. Manasi, Rout ledg e: L ondon and New Yor
k,2024, pp. 612- 616, (co-author Kritika Mishra)
Book review:
‘Sulabh San itation in Indi a: Issu es, Challeng es a
nd Prospect s’, of S umit Saur abh Srivastava, 2 022; Indi
an A nthr opologist , Jan- Dec 20 23, Vol. 53 , n umber 1
 and 2, pp. 186-188.
Invited Ta lks:
New Approache s to Economy and Socie ty: Expl oring Popu
lar Eco nom y as a Resear ch Agenda, ’ a two-da y worksh op orga niz
ed by School of HSS, IIT Mandi & Dept of HSS, IISER Mohali in collaboration with The New Political Economy Initiative, IIT Bombay, on 20-21 Apr 2024.
Moderate d a session o n Cli mate Chan ge-Mitiga ting Clim ate
 Change throug h K nowl edge Transf er and Capacity Building
 at a disti nguished p lat form : Indo-Germ an Confe ren
ce - Innovation and Global Cooperation for Sustainability, New Delhi, on 14 March 2024.
‘Community Engagement and Social Resilience’ - in Navigating Change: Adapting to Hydroclimatic Extremes, One Day Seminar, organised by Department of Civil & Infrastructure Engineering, IIT Jodhpur, 11 Mar 2024.
‘Research and Development’, in the Malaviya Mission Teacher Training Programme: National Education Policy Orientation and Sensitization, organised by IUCAA - Astronomy Centre for Educators, 6 Feb 2024.
‘Waterscape: A Viewpoint from Thar Desert, Rajasthan, Ind
ia, at the American Institute of Indian Studies (AIIS) J
an 2024.
‘Ethics of Research: Data Sharing, Research Funding, and Publication’, in the CEP course on ‘Formulating Research Proposal’, organised by the Department of HSS, IIT Kharagpur, 9 Dec 2023.
“Engendering Humour”—a panel of the IACLALS Annual
Conference 2024 on ‘Wit, Humour and the Carnivalesque
in Literature and Performance’ to be co-hosted by the
Dept of HSS, BITS Pilani, Goa, on 15 -17 February 2024.
Invited Tal k:
“From Theory to Practice: Meitei Folk Studies”—an invited lecture delivered at “In Theory and Practice”: A Two-Day Symposium organized by Dept of HSS, IIT Ropar, on 3-4, Feb 2024.
Confe rence Chairs :
“Engende ring Humo ur”— a pane l o f the IAC LALS An
nual Conference 2024 on ‘Wit, Humour and the Carnivales
que in Literature a nd Perfor manc e’ to b e co-h
osted b y the Dept of H SS, BITS Pi lani , Goa, on 15 -1
7 Fe bruar y 20 24.
Panel#3 of “In Theory and Practice”: A Two-Day Symposium organized by Dept of HSS, IIT Ropar, on 3 - 4 February 2024.
C onfere nce Pre sen tations:
“The Meitei-Kuki Conflict in (Political) Cartoons of The Sangai Express (Meiteilon Edition)”—a paper presented at the IACLALS Annual Conference 2024 on ‘Wit, Humour and the Carnivalesque in Literature and Performance’ to be co-hosted by the Dept of HSS, BITS Pilani, Goa, on 15-17 February 2024.
“Silent Screams’ and Songs of Mothers: Heisnam Kanhail
al’s Pebet and Bertolt Br echt ’s Mot her Cour age”— i n 
“Non-Ang lophone European a nd M odern India n Dram a: C
ross-cult ura l Enco unters and Ada ptation s” at th e 202 4
 MLA Convention, in Philadelphia, USA, 4 - 7 January 2024 (online).
Recognition:
 Floor judge: CD Narasimhaiah Prize for the Best Paper read at IACLALS annual conference,2024.
EVENTS
 CSR project grant by Bharat Serums & Vaccines Ltd. in collaboration Anyadesh, the blind theatre group, to conduct theatre workshops for adolescent blind girl students in three Blind Schools across Bengal, 2023 - 2024.

FACULTY ACHIEVEMENTS
Parichay Patra
Invited talks:
‘Beyond 
the 
Novelistic: 
Kanchenjungha 
at 
the
Crossroads' at the ongoing program 'An Eye for the
World: The Cinema of Satyajit Ray' on Jan 11, 2024, at
the Deutsches Filminstitut & Filmmuseum, Germany.
‘‘Transnational as Method: Locating Indian Cine-
Practice beyond India' at the year-long research
seminar 'India as Method', on Jan 12, 2024, at the
Institute for Theatre, Film and Media, Goethe
University, Germany.
Invited talks:
‘ Beyo nd the Nov elistic: Kanc henjungh a at th e Cro
ssroads' at the ongoing program 'An Eye for the World: 
The Cinema of Satyajit Ray' on Jan 11, 2024, at the Deutsches Filminstitut & Filmmuseum, Germany.
‘‘Transnational as Method: Locating Indian Cine-Practice beyond India' at the year-long research seminar 'India as Method', on Jan 12, 2024, at the Institute for Theatre, Film and Media, Goethe University, Germany.
 ‘Beyond the Nest of the Gentry: Whe n t he One-Ey ed Godd es
s Affects th e Canon' at the 'Ind ian Fol k Studies in Theory a
nd Practice' symposium, Dept of HSS, IIT Ropar, on Feb 4, 2024.
'In Sea rch of Me thod ology: Reading Globa l South Ci nem as',
 (o nlin e) at th e School of So cial Sci enc es and Huma nit
ies, VIT-AP University, on Mar 5, 2024.
Open Acces
s I
nt
eractive
 St
orytelling P
roject o
n t
he Manasamangal Kavya T eac hing P olit ical E cology as Q
ueer- Femi nist Pr axis" at ‘ Sustainabi lit y, G lobal Diver
sity, Inclusion, and Culture: Interdisciplinary Perspectives’
 organised by Dept of Education, University of Calcutta, funded by ICSSR, in collaboration with National Library of India, Ministry of Culture, Govt of India,18th & 19th Jan 2024.
“Decolonising the Anthropocene" A Political Ecological Reading 
of Sy M ontgome ry’s Spell of th e Ti ger: The M an- Eaters of
 Sundarba ns" in 'Global Anthr opo-sc ene: Rethinking Su stai nab
ility and Cultural Preservations' organised by the Dept of E
nglish, Jadavpur University, 3 0-31 J an 2024.
Open Access Interactive Storytelling Project on the Manasamangal Kavya: Digital Pedagogical Tools on Environmental Crises & Local Stakeholders, Intangible Heritage Conservation, and Minimal and Green Computing Tools for Insider/Outsider Engagement with the Sundarbans in India" panel discussion in the ELO (Un)conference 'Access Works' on Jan 18-19, 2024.
Participated in and moderated a session at the Translation Training Program, organised by the Department of Comparative Indian Language & Literature, University of Calcutta in collaboration with RUSA 2.0. 19-23 Dec 2023.
Funded Project:
Invited Talks :
‘Social Ine qualit ies and Education’ at Gradua te School of In
formation Production Systems, Waseda University, Japan, 19 Dec 2023.
‘SMART Pedagogy and Technology-enhanced learning’ as part of the CETE-DH International Seminar on Innovation and Inclusion in Education through Technology-enhanced learning', IIT Jodhpur, 13 Feb 2024.
Presentations:
Philip, R & Upadhyay, U. 'Access, Excellence and Scale in India’s National Programme for Technology-Enabled Learning (NPTEL): Identifying the Hidden Gaps' and Session Chair for 'Educational Data Mining', the IEEE International Conference on Teaching, Assessment and Learning for Engineering (TALE), Auckland, New Zealand, on 1 Dec, 2023.
Upadhyay, U. & Philip, R. 'Redefining Access: The Transformative Journey of NPTEL and Local Chapters in Expanding Higher Education Horizons' at the 13th Annual International Conference of the Comparative Education Society of India (CESI), Tezpur, Assam, 3 Dec, 2023.
The Science in the Search: the Construction of India's National Talent Search Examination' in Two Centuries of Education Policies in India(1823-2023) (Part II), organised by the Max Weber Forum for South Asian Studies; Institute of Educational Studies Humboldt University & Zakir Hussain Center for Educational Studies, JNU, New Delhi on 29 February-1 March, 2024.
Tonisha Guin
Funded Project:
Optim ization and efficac y of non-inva sive bra in sti
mulation on c ogniti ve and mo tor functi on in st ro
ke pati ents - A randomiz ed control trial stu dy.Fun
ding Agency : ICMR (20 24 - 2027)
Co-PI: Dr. Sum
an D
haka, Collabor
at
or: AIIMS
, Deoghar, North-Ea ste rn Hill Universi ty, Sh ill ong
.
Publi cation:
Mishra, B., & Dh aka, S. Effect o f loneli nes s o
n mental hea lth and c ognition: A study o n m idd
le‐aged and ol der adults i n India . Interna t
ional Social Science Journal, 2024, vol 74 (251), 203-21
8.
Sunil Lohar
Time and Space in Indian Folk Narrative Paintings: An Analysis of
 Pabuji ki Phad and Cheriyal Scroll Paintings”, and Chaired 
a session on “Indian Aesthetics: New Interpretations” at 1st Sou
th Asi an Exchang es Internation al Conferen ce on Indi an Ar ts 
and Literature, 9-10, March 2024, (Online)

STUDENT ACHIEVEMENTS
Nisha Paliwal
Presentations:
 “Ontologies of ‘Green’ and ‘Clean’: Decolonising ‘Wastelands’ for Just Energy Transition” at Dimensions of Political Ecology
Conference organised by the University of Kentucky, US,22-24 Feb 2024.
Rachayita Bhattacharyya
“Ontolog ies of ‘G ree n’ and ‘Clean’: De colonis in g ‘Wast ela nds ’ for Just En ergy Tr ansition ” at Dimen sio ns o f Political E
cology Conference organised by the University of Kentucky, US,22-24 Feb 2024.
MESSAGE
 Presentations:
"HaikuJam! Learning Haiku!" in the Electronic Literature Organisation's (ELO) International (Un)conference: Access Works , 18-19 Jan, 2024.'
'Digital H(AI)ku: An Introduction', at CHRIST ( Deemed to be University), Lavasa Campus, organised by the Department of Languages, School of Arts and Humanities on 8 Apr 2024.
Sonal Sinha
Publication (Creative):
Electron ic Lite rature: The c it y tha t wasn ’t! . In: Me non, N., Shanmugap riya, T., Jos eph, J. and Sutto n, D. (eds.) 
Indian Electronic Literature Anthology: Dec 2023, Volume I. Pp. 49–54. India: IITI KSHIP.
Samya Brata Roy
Publication (Creative):
Electronic Literature: The city that wasn’t!. In: Menon, N., Shanmugapriya, T., Joseph, J. and Sutton, D. (eds.) Indian
Electronic Literature Anthology: Dec 2023, Volume I. Pp. 49–54. India: IITI KSHIP.
Conferences: 
‘Theorizing material inequalities in electronic literatureS’ at the 55th NeMLA Convention organised by Tufts University and
University of Buffalo 7-10 Mar 2024.
‘Of Porous Boundaries and Materials: A case study of Electronic Litertaures' at Anviksha: A Research Scholars' Conference
organized by the Dept of HSS, IIT Kanpur, 3-4 Feb 2024.
Co-chair of ELO (Un)conference: Access Works Conference (also conducted a workshop on “Publishing ELit Research”) 
(virtual), 18-19 Jan, 2024.
“Sahitya Akademi and Electronic LiteratureS: Disciplines, Institutions and Disciplining” at the Digital Area Studies Lab
hosted by the Department for Interdisciplinary and Multiscalar Area Studies, University of Regensburg, April 2024.
“Digital Humanities Publishing” for the Faculty of Arts DH Lecture Series hosted by the University of Calabar, February
2024.
“Introductions to DH/ Introduction to DHs” at the English Department, The Heritage College, Kolkata. December 2023.

STUDENT ACHIEVEMENTS
Uma Mehta
‘From Reservation to Empowerment: Women’s Agency in Local Governance ' at Women’s Empowerment and Sustainable
Development: A Comparative Study of Meghalaya and Haryana, funded by ICSSR organised by the Dept of Sociology,
Central University of Haryana in collaboration University of Science and Technology, Meghalaya and Tripura Bamboo and
Cane Department, March 27-28, 2024.
MESSAGE
ACHIEVEMENTS
EVENTS
Cleared UGC NET and JRF in Sociology in December 2023.
Subhaji Maji
“Reading Environment in the Bangla Crimate Fictions of Suchitra Bhattacharya and Buddhadeb Guha” at the 55th NeMLA Convention organised by Tufts University and University of Buffalo,10 Mar 2024.
“Multiple ‘Others’ in South Asian Speculative Fiction: Case Studies from India and Pakistan”at the 55th NeMLA Convention organised by Tufts University and University of Buffalo, 7-10, Mar 2024.
"Beyong Nationness"- Reading Environment in the Selected Crimate Fictions of Suchitra Bhattacharya and Buddhadeb Gu
ha" at ACLA conference, Montreal, 14-17, Mar 2024.
“Multiple ‘Others’ in South Asian Speculative Fiction: Case Studies from India and Pakistan”at the 55th NeMLA Convention
organised by Tufts University and University of Buffalo, 7-10, Mar 2024.
‘From Re servation to Empowerm ent: Women’s Ag ency in Local Governa nce ' at Wom en’s Empo werment and S usta inable De
velopment: A Comparative Study of Meghalaya and Haryana, funded by ICSSR organised by the Dept of Sociology, Central University of Haryana in collaboration University of Science and Technology, Meghalaya and Tripura Bamboo and Cane Department, March 27-28, 2024.

SoLA Stories
MESSAGE
ACHIEVEMENTS
EVENTS
SoLA’s participation in the extracurricular activities organised by the board of departmental society, IITJ. Students of SoLA actively participated in both arts and sports activities and competitions showcasing their talents and camaraderie .
SoLA’s participation in the extracurricular activities organised by the board of departmental
society, IITJ. Students of SoLA actively participated in both arts and sports activities and
competitions showcasing their talents and camaraderie .
Painting : Pradarshika Biswas from SoLA

School of Liberal Arts
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur 342030, Rajasthan, India
NH62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur 342030, Rajasthan, India
Contact Us
Photo Credits: SoLA Students
MESSAGE
Photo Credits: SoLA Students
EVENTS
CONTACT