SOURCE_PDF: f4d398178649_Newsletter-Dec-2022-638748039023173734.pdf

MESSAGE FROM THE HEAD
The School of Liberal Arts (SoLA) is thrilled
to launch the first issue of its newsletter.
The year that has gone by has marked a
significant year in our pursuit of academic
excellence and holistic development. As a
first step, the School of Liberal Arts itself
came into existence from its earlier
presence as the Department of
Humanities and Social Sciences. This evolution is a need of time,
considering the role played by social science research in various
avenues of innovation and development that are happenin g around us.
Furthermore, the School also gives an opportunity to bring people from
diverse academic backgrounds and make them work together as a
team. As a part of this collective endeavour, the School has
introduced a new Master’s course in Computational Social Sciences.
With our first batch of students enrolled in this programme, we are
continuing our stride forward in realising the vision and mission of the
School and the Institute.
As also seen in this newsletter, with the series of events that we had in
the last year, we emphasised on not just on academic programmes in
the strict sense, but also on developing liaisons with stakeholders from
both the industry and academia. Thus, we had experts from both these
domains as invited speakers in our first winter school. We also
continued to involve them as a part of the ‘Industry Connect’
committee of SoLA. Having this constant dialogue with the industry
helps us to understand its demands so that we can prepare ourselves
to train our students accordingly.
We aim to orient in an interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary way that
Use this space for a
directly serves the need of our times. I invite you all to take part in our
effoqrtu, o atned o Ir h soopme yeo pu oeinnjot yt roeading our first newsletter.
be highlighted
Dr. FARHAT NAZ
Associate Professor of Sociology
Head, School of Liberal Arts WHAT'S INSIDE THIS ISSUE
1.Message from the Head
2.School Events In Focus
a.MSc. in Computational
Social Sciences
b.Inauguration of the Center
of Excellence on Arts and
Digital Immersion (ADI)
c.Musical Night with Pandit
Ajoy Chakrabarty
d.Graduate Student Seminar
Series
e.Winter School on
Computational Methods for
Social Sciences
f.Induction of Two External
Experts inducted as Advisors
in the ‘Industry Connect’
Committee
3.SoLA Seminar Series
4.Faculty Achievements
5.Student Achievements
6.Upcoming Events
EDITORIAL TEAM
Dr. Tonisha Guin
Dr. Gurujegan Murugesan
Manya Khanna, MSc. CSS
Niharika Maiti, MSc. CSS
Aniket Sachan, MSc. CSS
Shubhi Verma, MSc. CSS
VOLUME 1| ISSUE 1 | JULY-DECEMBER 2022
NEWSLETTER
SCHOOL OF LIBERAL ARTS, IIT JODHPUR

SCHOOL EVENTS IN FOCUS
MSc in Computational Social Sciences
The Masters in Computational Social Sciences (MSc.
CSS), the flagship program of the School of Liberal Arts
(SoLA) at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Jodhpur,
commenced in July 2022. The program seeks to develop
highly-skilled 
graduates 
equipped 
with 
theoretical,
technical, and application-oriented knowledge that will
enable them to construct, improve, analyze and apply
theoretically informed models to understand processes
and phenomena. Bridging disciplines and technical
expertise, this program is also in line with the National
Education Policy (2020), and the Government of India’s
Vision 2047 seeking future skill sets for a future society.
Inauguration of Center of Excellence on Arts and Digital Immersion (ADI)
The School of Liberal Arts has embarked on its truly
transdisciplinary venture with its first and newly inaugurated
Center of Excellence on Arts and Digital Immersion (ADI) on
September 19, 2022. The Center will cater to multi-
disciplinary endeavour that is located at the intersections of
the fields of AI, Arts, Cognitive Psychology, Philosophy and
Ethics. The Center plans to pursue, recognize, and
appreciate excellence in creative endeavours, artistic
performances, and practice-driven activities.
Musical night with Pandit Ajoy Chakrabarty
As a part of the inauguration of ADI, the School also hosted
a musical event on 19th September 2022, where Pandit Ajoy
Chakrabarty and his team gave a memorable performance.
Pandit Ajoy Chakrabarty is one of the most respected
vocalists of Indian classical music. He has received the
Padma Bhushan and Padma Sri conferred by the President of
India. This musical event was attended by the entire IIT–
Jodhpur fraternity. It made the evening blissful. The
performance, and following Q and A session, made it an
electrifying evening.

Graduate Student Seminar Series
In the Graduate Student Seminar Series, our PhD scholars present original research. It commenced on
29th November, 2022. Our first presenter, Ms. Prarthana Saikia, presented her work titled ‘Different
Conceptualizations of Negotiation and Wisdom by Males and Females Affect the Negotiation Process’. This
series provides a platform to the PhD students to share their ideas with their peers and receive valuable
feedback from the School's members of faculty coming from diverse disciplines.
Winter School on Computational Methods for Social Science
The School of Liberal Arts successfully completed the first edition of its two-day Winter School on
Computational Methods for Social Sciences on 6th and 7th December 2022. The program
introduced the participants to Behavioral Science, Data Science, Technology and Social Science,
Machine Learning, Data Visualization, Agent Modelling, hands-on training with STATA, and more. Our
postgraduate students had the privilege of attending wonderful sessions with academics, industry
professionals, and policymakers.
The Induction of Two External Experts in ‘Industry Connect’ Committee
The School of Liberal Arts is also proud to have Mr. Bhupesh Dinger and Mr. Soumitra Poddar as external experts
in the ‘Industry Connect’ Committee. They will advise and provide necessary inputs to the committee to help 
 strengthen the School's relation with the industry.
Mr. Bhupesh Dinger,
Director at Enrich and
Member of the Board of
Governors, IIM-Raipur
Mr. Soumitra Poddar, Founding
Partner of Strategic Services
Consulting, Professor of
Management (IISWBM) and
Visiting Faculty at VGSOM, IIT
Kharagpur.

Prof. Bibhuti Bhusan Mohanty,
Professor and Head of the Dept of
Sociology at Pondicherry University,
delivered a talk on ‘Aging, Youth,
and the Future of Farming in India ’
on August 17, 2022.
Dr. Lipika Dey, Principal Scientist
at TCS Innovation Labs, New
Delhi, delivered a talk on ‘Text
mining for Computational Social
Science’ on November 15, 2022.
Dr. 
Namrata 
Chindarkar
from 
IIM 
Ahmedabad,
delivered a talk on ‘Gender
and Time poverty in India’
on August 4, 2022.
Mr. Soumitra Poddar, Founding Partner of
Strategic Services Consulting, Professor
of Management (IISWBM) and Visiting
Faculty 
at 
VGSOM, 
IIT 
Kharagpur,
delivered a talk on ’Digital Age and the
Future Prospects’ on October 19, 2022.
Prof. Uma Das Gupta, historian,
biographer, and (Retd) Tagore
Professor at ISI, Kolkata, delivered
a talk on ‘The School of the Poet
Rabindranath Tagore: Art, Science,
Nature, Educational Innovation’ on 
November 10, 2022.
SoLA SEMINAR SERIES

FACULTY ACHIEVEMENTS
Dr. Alok Ranjan won the Young Researcher Award (Humanities and Management), 2022 on the Institute’s
Foundation day, for his outstanding contribution to public health and non-communicable diseases.
Dr. Suman Dhaka won the Moonshot Award 2022 on the Institute’s Foundation Day for her project titled
‘Sleep Switch: Personalized Optimization of Sleep.’
Prof. Sangeeta Sahney, Dr. Farhat Naz, Dr. Suman Dhaka, Dr. Ayan Sadhukan, and Dr. Alok Ranjan won the
Moonshot Project Idea award 2022 on the Institute’s Foundation Day for their project titled ‘CogTree or
WiseTree: A Tree that Knows You.’
Dr. Ruhi Sonal was awarded the International Research Mobility Grant Award on the Institute’s Foundation
Day for her project titled ‘Choice Environments and Bounded Rationality.’
Prof. Chhanda Chakraborti has been nominated as the chairperson, and Dr. Alok Ranjan has been nominated
as the coordinator for a joint certificate course on digital healthcare systems offered by IIT Jodhpur and
AIIMS Jodhpur.
Dr. Farhat Naz 
Was appointed as the DAAD South Asia Research Ambassador for 2022-2025 by DAAD and German
Embassy, New Delhi, India.
Published a paper in the prestigious journal for sociology, Sociological Bulletin published by Indian
Sociological Society, titled ‘Land Grabbing in Common Property Resources: How Women Social Positions
Intersect Access to Natural Resources’. 
Presented a paper titled 'Desertification, Traditional Knowledge and Water Management: A Perspective from
(Below) Thar Desert, Rajasthan', at the conference on 'Navigating Uncertain Futures', on October 14-15,
2022, at the International Sociological Association and the American Sociological Association’s Section on
Environmental Sociology.
Was Invited as a Judge, at the 6th Annual International Muskan Bhandari Memorial Inter-School English
Debate 2022, held at Delhi Public School, Jodhpur on August 31, 2022.
Dr. K. J. George and Dr. Farhat Naz published a paper in the prestigious journal Springer Nature of Social
Sciences titled 'Intergenerational Fairness: Lessons from Pandemic Contexts'.
Dr. Parichay Patra‘s forthcoming edited volume Rethinking Radical Latin American Cinema: Documents,
Images, Technologies has been commissioned for publication by the State University of New York Press
(SUNY Press).
A book titled, The Bloomsbury Handbook to the Medical- Environmental Humanities was published in
September 2022 by Bloomsbury Academic, London. Dr. Vidya Sarveswaran, Associate Professor of Literary
Studies at the School of Liberal Arts, is one of the editors of this new volume. The book was officially
launched in the Centre for Environmental Humanities at Helsinki in October 2022. The volume is the first
edited collection that seeks to bring environmental humanities and medical humanities into conversation in a
systematic way.
Dr Rachel Philip's monograph The Nation's Got Talent: Education, Experimentation and Policy Discourses in
India was published by Routledge in November 2022.
FACULTY ACHIEVEMENTS

Dr. Ankita Sharma was interviewed by the Wisdom and Identity Lab, Ontario Institute for Studies in
Education, University of Toronto on ‘Leadership and virtue.’
Dr. Tonisha Guin 
Published "The Subject of Knowledge: Reading Manhood of Humanity as an Identity Project" in a joint
collaboration of Anekaant: A Journal of Polysemic Thougt, published by the Balvant Parekh centre for general
semantics and Other Human Sciences, Baroda, India and ETC: A Review of General Semantics published by
the International Institute of General Semantics, New York.
Published “Decolonising Digital Pedagogy: Agents of Ishq and Contemporary Discourses on Sex in India” in
the Bandung: Journal of the Global South with Dr. Anomitra Biswas.
Presented a paper titled “History, Gaze, and Identity Project in Bengali Middle-Class Modernity: Translation
as an Act of Epistemic Intervention“ at the International Seminar ‘Translation as Reconstitution: Issues of
Self, Canon, History, and Memory in India’ virtually hosted by EFL University, Hyderabad.
Presented a paper titled “Epistemic Reconstitution and Border Dwelling in Jamlo Walks: An Illustrated Book
about Life During Lockdown” in the International Conference on ‘Narratives of Criminality, Punishment and
Social Justice in Children’s & Young Adults Literature in August 2022’ conducted virtually on 5-7 August,
2022 by the Department of English, Jadavpur University, Kolkata, and the Association for Children’s
Literature in South Asia.
Conducted a workshop titled “Feminisms and Popular Culture: Contexts, Concerns from the Global South” on
October 28, 2022, for postgraduate and doctoral students of English, Applied Psychology, Applied
Philosophy and Development Studies at GITAM School of Humanities and Social Sciences at Gandhi Institute
of Technology and Management (Deemed to be University), Visakhapatnam.
Was invited to give a talk on “Thinking and Writing Critically” for undergraduate students on 27 October
2022 at GITAM School of Humanities and Social Sciences at Gandhi Institute of Technology and
Management (Deemed to be University), Visakhapatnam. 
Acted as the Faculty Instructor in the virtual International Faculty Development Programme organized by
Kristu Jayanti College, Bengaluru on 21 November 2022 to conduct a session on “Understanding Identities as
Discursive-Performative.”
Dr. Anupama Mohan joined SoLA in December 2022 as Associate Professor of English. In December 2022,
her debut novel, Where Mayflies Live Forever, was published as a Picador imprint by Pan Macmillan.
Dr. Natasa Thoudam
Was a member of the judging team for the 2021 Sabin Award for Comics Scholarship awarded annually to
the best paper presented by a postgraduate student at the IGNCC conference.
Published “Mary Kom’s Collaborative Autobiography: Negotiating Authorship” in the special issue on 'Writing
Self, Writing Resistance: Women’s Life Writing in India' of the Journal of Comparative Literature and
Aesthetics.
Published “Interrogating the ‘Indian’ in the Indian Novel.” in theEconomic & Political Weekly. 
Was invited to give an online lecture titled “Performances and Representations of Maternal Rage in the
Kangla Protest (2004), Swar Thounaojam's Bogey Systems (2013), and Nepram Maya's Complaint (2007)”for
the GIAN course 194025F1 “Manuals of Motherhood: Meditations on Transnational Literary Tropes” hosted by
the Women’s College, Aligarh Muslim University, India, scheduled on 30 November 2022.
FACULTY ACHIEVEMENTS

STUDENTS' ACHIEVEMENTS
Mr. Samya Brata Roy
Published a chapter titled, ‘Hitman 2 and its Spectre of Mumbai: A City Lost in Translation’ in Literary
Cultures and Digital Humanities in India from Routledge (Taylor and Francis) edited by Nishat Zaidi (Jamia
Milia Islamia) and A. Sean Pue (Michigan State University).
Was invited by Dr. Kristen Schuster (Adjunct Instructor, University of Missouri, School of Information Science
and Learning Technologies and Lecturer in Digital Curation, King’s College, London) to deliver a guest
lecture for her course on Digital Humanities at the School of Information Science and Learning
Technologies, University of Missouri.
Presented ‘Translation as the Performance of Negotiation in DH’ at the Alliance of Digital Humanities
Organizations Conference (DH2022 Tokyo), hosted virtually. 
Presented ‘An Investigation into the Logic of the ‘Digital’ in the Cinematic 21st-century adaptations of
Hamlet’ for the Crossroads 2022 Conference (virtual) organised by the Association for Cultural Studies.
Presented "Detecting the Quotidian and Challenging Cultural Commodification: A Case Study of
‘Sharodiya Pujabarshikis’ from India" with Dr. Dibyadyuti Roy and Ms. Swarnima Banerjee at the conference
'Cultural Enclosure and Literary Form' organised by BCLA at University of Oxford.
Acted as a Juror in the Art Exhibition curated by Clara Fernández-Vara and Nick Montfort in The
International Conference on 'Interactive Digital Storytelling' (ICIDS) 2022 at University of California in
Santa Cruz.
Ms. Sanskriti K and Ms. Samyukthah A made an online presentation at the 'Suspirias Symposium: Covering
Trauma, Memory, and the Body' organized by the Queen Mary University of London.
Mr. Amir Sohel and Dr. Farhat Naz co-published with Dr. Bidhan Kanti Das (Associate Professor of
Anthropology of IDS, Kolkata) in the prestigious conference proceedings of 'The 3rd International Electronic
Conference on Forests — Exploring New Discoveries and New Directions in Forests' by MDPI, Switzerland.
Mr. Amir Sohel presented his work titled "Role of Indigenous knowledge in Sustainable Forest
Managementand Wildlife Conservation in Thar Desert, India" at the conference 'Reimagining Development
Futures in the Anthropocene and Climate Change', organised by Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok,
Thailand and the Asia Pacific Sociological Association (APSA) on 28-29 Oct. 2022.
Ms. Surabhi Singh presented her work titled "Social Dimensions of Water-Energy-Food Nexus in Western
Uttar Pradesh", at the 47th Indian Sociological Conference, organized by the Indian Sociological Society
on 20-22 December 2022.
Ms. Nisha Paliwal presented a paper at the conference titled "Ambivalences of Ecological Transformation",
organized by the University of Augsburg.
Ms. Swarnima Banerjee presented at the conference titled 'Comics and the Global South' organized by
CRASSH, University of Cambridge.

School of Liberal Arts at IIT Jodhpur is launching an MDes in XR from July 2023, a two-year full-time
Master’s program. The program will prepare a new generation of students to research and define
human experience and interactions in the ever-growing world of AR/VR/MR (XR/Immersive Media).
Creating engaging experiences with a wide variety of futuristic technologies and their application for
different use cases will be at the core of the program. Such technologies include AR/VR, gaming
engines, real-time animation and video, holography, IoT, etc. The graduating students will work in the
industry to redefine the future of work and interactions and reimagine communication in an
increasingly globalised world.
In addition, the School also plans to offer a joint certificate course on digital health care system
offered by IIT Jodhpur and AIIMS Jodpur.
Graduate student Research Meet (GRM 2023) is another event that the school intends to host in 2023.
UPCOMING EVENT
REACH OUT TO US
SoLA IIT Jodhpur