SOURCE_PDF: f62ba3572885_chemistry-Reporting-Details-for-Interview-Phd-2025-638844612062618750.pdf

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Department of Chemistry
NH-62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur,
Rajasthan India-342030.
Reporting Details for Interview
All the candidates shortlisted for Interview for Ph.D. Admission of the Department of Chemistry are requested to 
appear for the physical interview on 12th May 2025 at IIT Jodhpur.
Please note the following:
(1) If you are willing to attend the Interview, kindly confirm by 5th May 2025, 5 PM, through Google Form. The
link of the Google form will be shared via email. Detailed schedule of interviews will be notified to the 
candidates who confirm their participation in the due time.
(2) You must report on time for interview.
(3) No request will be entertained to change the date for interview.
(4) You are advised to ensure that you fulfil the minimum eligibility criteria and must submit the following at the
time 
of admission:
(a) 
a copy of his/her application (duly-signed)
(b) 
a passport size photograph
(c) 
self-attested photocopies of his/her mark-sheets, degree certificates (if available)
(d) 
a valid GATE, NET, CSIR, UGC, NBHM or equivalent score card. The candidates who have uploaded the 
NET scorecard without the result must submit the updated scorecard as soon as they receive the same.
(e) 
The candidates belonging to reserved categories must submit a self-attested copy of the certificate.
(f) 
The candidates belonging to OBC-NCL/SC/ST category must submit a self-attested copy of the 
caste certificate.
(g) 
Persons with disability must submit necessary certificates regarding minimum 40% disability 
for 
consideration.
(5) 
The Institute reserves the right to withdraw the admission in case the candidate DOES NOT fulfil the 
minimum 
qualification/required percentage of marks in the qualifying examination or supplies any false
(6) 
Please note that this call is merely a request for an interview and in any way does not guarantee 
admission for 
Ph.D. Program at IIT Jodhpur.