SOURCE_PDF: ffb6c6854517_Newsletter-April-2023-638748038808204583.pdf

MESSAGE FROM THE HEAD
Welcome to the second issue of the SoLA
newsletter. This newsletter is exciting for us,
as it provides us the chance to report the
many events where we could showcase the
strength and humility of the members of
faculty, students, and staff of the School.
SoLA had a significant footfall at the Open
house Padharo 2.0 and the Exhibition at the Quindecennial
Celebrations of IIT Jodhpur. The public events were widely attended by
guests from all walks of life, and the way the team at S oLA engaged
with them exemplifies the way the School seeks to foster values of
diversity and inclusiveness. The presentations and displays of the
School drew attention to different aspects of its inception and
evolution in the domains of academic research, teaching, academic
collaborations, projects, and publications of its faculty and students.
SoLA’s first Graduate Research Meet also saw a huge number of
participants. SoLA also organised sessions with a number of eminent
scholars under the aegis of the SoLA Seminar Series.
Further, the first international workshop of its newfound Centre of
Excellence in Art and Digital Immersion– AI and Creative Arts– was a
resounding success. I am also excited about SoLA contributing to the
various research and teaching of national importance and encourage
everyone to support us in this endeavor. These milestones could not
have been achieved without the diligent efforts of the SoLA faculty,
students, and staff, and I take this opportunity to thank them all.
As we continue our work in inter/multidisciplinary research and
Use this space for a
pedagogy; we look forward to meaningful academic engagement to
quote or some point to
realise both, the way the School’s mission was envisioned, and how it
be highlighted
aligns itself with those of the Institute.
Thank you so very much!
Dr. FARHAT NAZ
Associate Professor of Sociology
Head, School of Liberal Arts WHAT'S INSIDE THIS ISSUE
1.Message from the Head
2.SoLA events : In Focus
a.Prof. Ashutosh Sharma as
scholar in residence
b.Workshop on Academic
writing by Dr. Ananya
Dasgupta
c.Talk by Dr. Shuhita
Bhattacharjee
d.Open House Padharo 2.0
e.Quindecennial Celebrations
f.Industry Day
g.First Graduate Research
Meet (GRM)
3.SoLA Seminar Series
4.AI and Creative Arts Workshop
5.Faculty Achievements
6.Student Achievements
EDITORIAL TEAM
Dr. Gurujegan Murugesan
Dr. Tonisha Guin
Manya Khanna, MSc. CSS
Aniket Sachan, MSc. CSS
Shubhi Verma, MSc. CSS
VOLUME 1| ISSUE 2 | JANUARY-APRIL 2023
NEWSLETTER
SCHOOL OF LIBERAL ARTS, IIT JODHPUR

SOLA EVENTS: IN FOCUS
School of Liberal Arts is proud to have Prof. Ashutosh
Sharma as a Scholar-in-Residence at the Centre of
Excellence for Arts and Digital Immersion. Prof. Ashutosh
Sharma is Institute Chair Professor, IIT Kanpur and President
of Indian National Science Academy (INSA).
Prof. Ashutosh Sharma as a Scholar-in-
Residence
Workshop on Academic writing by Dr.
Ananya Dasgupta
School of Liberal Arts in collaboration with DH-IDRP, IIT
Jodhpur, had organized an online workshop on academic
writing conducted by Dr. Ananya Dasgupta, Krea University,
on 24th February. The workshop, titled 'Sentences to make
arguments and Sentences to develop them', was well-
attended by postgraduate and doctoral students.
Talk by Dr. Shuhita Bhattacharjee
DH-IDRP and the School of Liberal Arts co-organized a talk
by Dr. Shuhita Bhattacharjee, Assistant Professor of Literary,
Gender and Sexuality Studies in the Department of Liberal
Arts, and Adjunct Professor of Design in the Department of
Design, IIT Hyderabad on February, 27th. She spoke on
'Unpacking Postsecular Theory for/in Literature: Rights, Riots,

Two external experts inducted as advisors in ‘Industry Connect’ Committee
The School of Liberal Arts is also proud to have Mr. Bhupesh Dinger and Mr. Soumitra Poddar as external experts
in the ‘Industry Connect’ Committee. They will advise and provide necessary inputs to committee in
strengthening the relation between the school and industry.
Mr. Bhupesh Dinger,
Director at Enrich and
Member- Board of
Governors, IIM-Raipur
Mr. Soumitra Poddar, Founding
Partner, Strategic Services
Consulting, Professor of
Management (IISWBM) and
Visiting Faculty (VGSOM, IIT
Kharagpur).
SoLA's Chapter of the Open House Padharo 2.0
The faculty and students of the School of Liberal Arts (SoLA) welcomed a steady stream of
enthusiastic school children, college students, and other, equally curious locals of different age
groups from Jodhpur city to the School during IIT Jodhpur’s Open House Padharo 2.0 held on
February 12, 2023. It was truly remarkable to participate in an event in which our visitors were
warmly welcomed and shown around the SoLA premises. The humility and friendliness of the
members of faculty, students and staff bear mentioning. Some of the research undertaken by
students and faculty was exhibited through poster presentations, which showcased a passion for
learning and building a culture of excellence in interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary education
and research. The audience included a truly diverse group of visitors from different walks of life.
The enthusiasm of everyone participating resonated with the way in which they could connect with
the themes and concerns the School’s exhibits and presentations showcased. The interactions
between the SoLA team and the guests thus evolved into an excellent instance of the way in which
the School seeks to foster humanitarian values, diversity and inclusiveness.

Two external experts inducted as advisors in ‘Industry Connect’ Committee
The School of Liberal Arts is also proud to have Mr. Bhupesh Dinger and Mr. Soumitra Poddar as external experts
in the ‘Industry Connect’ Committee. They will advise and provide necessary inputs to committee in
strengthening the relation between the school and industry.
Mr. Bhupesh Dinger,
Director at Enrich and
Member- Board of
Governors, IIM-Raipur
Mr. Soumitra Poddar, Founding
Partner, Strategic Services
Consulting, Professor of
Management (IISWBM) and
Visiting Faculty (VGSOM, IIT
Kharagpur).
The School of Liberal Arts showcased different aspects of its inception, history and current activities at
the Exhibition organized on the occasion of the Quindecennial Celebrations of IIT Jodhpur on 16 March,
2023. This event also marked the inauguration of Intellia: The Board of Department Societies Festival.
Demonstrating the diversity, vibrancy and novelty of its research, academic output and student activities,
the School of Liberal Arts made its presence felt at the Quindecennial Celebrations of IIT Jodhpur. The
SoLA stall experienced a significant footfall.
The chief guest of the event, Dr. S. Chandrasekhar, Secretary, Department of Science and Technology,
Government of India, visited the exhibition and interacted with the faculty and students. He commented
in particular on the importance of the work done in the areas of sustainability, psychology and
environmental humanities. Ph.D. students from the School curated and presented the exhibition on 18th
and 19th of March. These presentations were also attended by participants of Intellia, the alumni of IIT
Jodhpur as well as the visiting delegates from the University of Buffalo, New York, USA.
Quindecinnial Celebration
Quindecennial Celebrations

Two external experts inducted as advisors in ‘Industry Connect’ Committee
The School of Liberal Arts is also proud to have Mr. Bhupesh Dinger and Mr. Soumitra Poddar as external experts
in the ‘Industry Connect’ Committee. They will advise and provide necessary inputs to committee in
strengthening the relation between the school and industry.
Mr. Bhupesh Dinger,
Director at Enrich and
Member- Board of
Governors, IIM-Raipur
Mr. Soumitra Poddar, Founding
Partner, Strategic Services
Consulting, Professor of
Management (IISWBM) and
Visiting Faculty (VGSOM, IIT
Kharagpur).
First Graduate Research Meet
On March 24 and 25, 2023, the School of Liberal Arts hosted its First Graduate Research Meet on
the theme "Emergent Trends for a World in Transition." The research meet brought together young
researchers from a wide range of academic domains. The student presentations and plenary sessions
examined the interdisciplinarity at work in fields as diverse as ethics and artificial intelligence,
gender studies, development studies, environmental humanities, film studies, and digital humanities.
Special mention must be made of the School's doctoral scholars for their hard work and
organisational skills.
Industry Day
At the 3rd Industry Day held at the Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur (February 3-4, 2023),
faculty and students of the School of Liberal Arts presented posters on their ongoing research.
Presentation for School Children
Almost 320 students from the Central Academy, Jodhpur Cantonment, visited the School as a part of an
educational tour on 28 April 2023. SoLA's presentation for them was aimed at inspiring the students to
pursue education in a holistic manner such that they can contribute to society.

SOLA SEMINAR SERIES
On 31st March, Prof. Surajit Sen from the State University of New York, Buffalo, spoke on 'Can a
typical urban population survive an airborne pandemic?' at the SoLA Seminar Series hosted by the
School of Liberal Arts, IIT Jodhpur. Prof. Sen discussed strategies for urban planners to address and
endure airborne pandemics, especially the susceptibility of urban areas to airborne pandemics
using the 'agent-based model'.
The School of Liberal Arts organised a session with Dr. M.A.
Kalam on 20 March 2023, titled 'Migration Logistics:
Contacts, Networking and Related Facets'.
Talk by Prof. Surajit Sen
On January 30th, 2023, the University of Bristol's Professor of
Education, Arathi Sri Prakash, gave a lecture titled "Whiteness
and the Politics of Education" at the School of Liberal Arts in IIT

SOLA SEMINAR SERIES
On 12 April 2023, the faculty and students of the School of Liberal Arts, had the pleasure of listening
to Prof. Mitali Mukerji, on the topic “Genomics and Social Sciences: Why Should these Cross-talk?”
Prof. Mukerji was a recipient of the prestigious Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize (2010) for outstanding
research in the area of Medical Sciences. Currently, she is the Head of the Department of Bioscience
and Bioengineering, at IIT Jodhpur. The talk was well-attended.
Talk by Prof. Mitali Mukerji
International workshop on AI and Creative arts
Center of Excellence on Art and Digital Immersion (ADI), School of Liberal Arts, has organized its
first international, and truly one-of-its-kind workshop on ‘AI and Creative Arts' on April 29, 2023.
Eminent practitioners, viz, Prof. Sarah Kenderdine, Dr. Padmini Ray Murray, & Ms. Jenny Bhatt
presented on the emergent domain of reimagining the creative space with advanced AI
technology. In addition to the invited talks, the workshop also showcased relevant works of IIT
Jodhpur faculty and students.

FACULTY ACHIEVEMENTS
FACULTY ACHIEVEMENTS
Published a book review in the prestigious journal of Sociology, published by Indian Sociological Society:
Farhat Naz (Book Review) Maryam Wasif Khan, "Who Is a Muslim? Orientalism and Literary Populisms”
Sociological Bulletin, 72 (2): 1-5
Invited resource person at the DAAD Workshop on PhD Proposal Writing in Social Science for South Asia.
Participated at the Global Forum for Food and Agriculture 2023; International Green Week 2023 at Berlin;
and in a workshop and delivered lectures at Gottingen University, Germany, in January 2023, organized
and funded by the Federal Ministry of Food and Agriculture, Government of Germany and DAAD.
Dr. Farhat Naz, perspective and views as a German Alumnus from Global South on The food supply crisis
and conceivable-solutions: Committed to Combating World Hunger, was featured as part of UN SDGs, in
the German Alumni portal and Magazine on 3 March 2023. Dr. Farhat Naz, was nominated to speak and
present Global South at the forum. These SDG Alumni German Projects are geared towards the
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set by the United Nations.
Nominated in March 2023 to become a member of the ISTR (International Society for Third-Sector
Research) International Publication Committee. It's a global forum, where she has been nominated to
represent the Global South.
Published a book review titled, Women, Subalterns, and Ecologies in South and Southeast Asian Women’s
Fiction. By Chitra Sankaran, in the ISLE: Interdisciplinary Studies in Literature and Environment, 2023; OUP
Published an article titled, "Under Another Sky: A Triptych in the Thar Desert," in the Literary Desertscapes
in the Global South and Beyond :. Anthropocene NatureCultures. Routledge: New York, April 2023.
Invited to serve as a resource person for the Fulbright Program Mentoring that was organized by the
Fulbright Commission in India and the United States-India Educational Foundation (USIEF), New Delhi in
Presented a paper at the Asian Meeting of the Econometric Society, January 10-12, 2023, IIT Bombay.
Paper title: "Optimal Stopping in list-based decisions".
Invited to present a paper at the Conference of the Society for Advancement of Economic Theory (SAET),
2023, Paris scheduled for July 17-23. Paper title: "Optimal search for the best alternative in a list".
Dr. Farhat Naz
Dr. Vidya Sarveswaran
Dr. Ruhi Sonal

FACULTY ACHIEVEMENTS
FACULTY ACHIEVEMENTS
The chapter 'The Talented Student: Evolution of the Category in Post-Independence Education Policy' has
been published in the book 'Education, Teaching and Learning: Discourses, Cultures and Conversations'
ed.Azra Razzack, Padma M. Sarangapani, and Manish Jain (published by Orient Blackwan)(January, 2023)
Invited talk titled 'Liberal Arts - A Practitioner's Perspective" on 21 March, 2023 at the Workshop on
Transdisciplinary Studies, organized by Madras Christian College, Chennai.
Kaushik Narayan S, Abishek V M., Gopakumar K U et al. (2023). “Surgical Management of Chronic
Osteomyelitis - Organisms, Recurrence, and Treatment Outcome.” Chinese Journal of Traumatology, Elsevier
Published an article ‘No one heard me!’: sexual self-fashioning and the child in ‘Lihāf’ was published on 4
January 2023 in South Asian History and Culture. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1080/19472498.2022.2141258
Presentation in the 2023 Spring Symposium of the Centre for South Asian Studies at the University of Hawai'i
Mānoa, on 19 April 2023; more details here: https://southasiasymposium2023.wordpress.com/
“Mufidun Nisa's ‘Wait Flower, Don't Bloom’: The Problematic of the Literary Circles in Manipur” —a paper to be
presented at the IACLALS Annual Conference 2023 (Online) on "Metropolis and Margins: Shifting Perspectives
in Literary and Language Studies" to be held from 27 to 29 Apr 2023 (online).
“Alternative imaginations of space and time in Maharaj Kumari Binodini Devi’s Boro Sahib Ongbi Sanatombi
(The Princess and the Political Agent), Devala Mutum’s ‘Thaningla,’ and Kshetrimayum Subadani Devi’s The
Illustrated Folk Tales of Manipur”—a paper presented at 22nd Annual South Asian Literary Association (SALA)
Conference titled “Envisioning Black & South Asian Solidarity: History, Culture, Praxis” organized by SALA held
on 1 and 2 Apr 2023 (online).
Plenary Speaker on "Digital Pedagogy, Feminist Critique and the Indian Popular: Vitamin Stree and Agents of
Ishq as Case Studies around Sex Education in India" in the International Conference on "Humanities In the
Digital Age: New Directions and Emerging Trends" hosted by Kristu Jayanti College Autonomous, Bengaluru on
29-30 March 2023.
Dr. Rachel Philip
Dr. Gopakumar
Dr. Anupama Mohan
Dr. Natasa Thoudam
Dr. Tonisha Guin

STUDENTS ACHIEVEMENTS
Ensslin, Astrid, and Samya Brata Roy. “Electronic LiteratureS as Postcomparative Media.” CompLit Journal of
European Literature, Arts and Society, Edited by Marina Grishakova et al., vol. 5, no. 1, Apr. 2023, pp. 145–172.
Digital Writing as DH Method (invited co-plenary with Prof. Leonardo Flores of Appalachian State University)
Virtual Conference on “Humanities in the digital age: New directions and emerging trends.”, Department of
English, Kristu Jayanti College Autonomous, March 2023
Accessibility and Electronic Literature (invited plenary)
Webinar/Virtual Conference on “E-Literature: Explorations in Literary Creativity '', Department of English,
Jamia Millia Islamia in collaboration with ELitIndia, January 2023.
“Digital Humanities and Community Building”, Graduate Student Seminar Series, School of Liberal Arts, IIT
Jodhpur, 31 January 2023.
Peer Reviewer for the upcoming DH2023 Conference organized by Alliance for Digital Humanities
Organizations to be held in Graz, Austria (July 10-14, 2023)
Gold medal, Abhivyakti (Creative Writing), Intellia (Inter-Departmental Competition/Fest), March 2023
Gold medal, STEW, Intellia (Inter-Departmental Competition/Fest), March 2023.
Amir Sohel and Dr. Farhat Naz, presented a paper on "Politics of Forest Rights in India: Un/Re-Doing
Historical Injustice to Forest-Dwelling Communities?" at the World Convention Injustice in a World of
Uncertainty in Mikkeli, Finland, 28 March 2023.
Narrative Self and Cultural Context. Graduate Research Meet. Department of Humanities and Social
Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati. Assam. 6th -7th January 2023.
Presented "Cine-buildings and the Question of Access: Interdisciplinary Interventions through 'Space'" at the
Graduate Research Meet, Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology
Guwahati, on 6 Jan 2023.
Presentation at the Midwest Popular Association (MPCA/ACA) 2023 Virtual Graduate StudentConference
(March 10-11 2023).Paper titled "Locating Transcultural Fandom in India's Chennai: A Case Study of K-Wave
India Fan Club.
Samya Brata Roy
Amir Sohel
Jayprakash Show
Parnika Agarwal
Sanskriti K
STUDENT ACHIEVEMENTS
Presented the paper "Imitative or Transformative? Normative Border Dwelling in Atin Bandopadhyay’s
“Somudre Oshoriri”" in the International Conference on "Aquatic Surfaces and Depths" conducted by the
Haunted Shores Network, University of Southampton on 7-8 April 2023.
invited to Goethe Institute Bengaluru, in a Goethe Institute & Curating for Culture collaboration, to
1. Showcase a public exhibition titled 'The Royal Bengal(i) Tiger and it's Ecologies'
2. Conduct a workshop on 'Critical Making and Political Ecology'.

SoLA IIT Jodhpur
REACH OUT TO US